 "The Da Vinci Code" is written by Dan Brown . All descriptions of artwork, architecture, documents, and secret rituals in this novel are accurate . The Priory of Sion — a European secret society founded in 1099 — is a real organization . The Vatican prelature known as Opus Dei is a deeply devout Catholic sect .
 Langdon's visibility had increased a hundredfold since his involvement in a widely publicized incident at the Vatican last year . Langdon cringed as the hostess read choice excerpts from an article from Boston Magazine . "If I find which one of you provided that article, I'll have the consulate agicallydeport you," he said .
 All true followers of The Way wore a leather strap studded with sharp metal barbs that cut into the flesh as a perpetual reminder of Christ's suffering . Langdon viewed the world as a web of profoundly intertwined histories and events . The connections may be invisible, he often preached to his symbology classes at Harvard, but they are always there .
 The new entrance to the Paris Louvre had become almost as famous as the museum itself . The controversial, neomodern glass pyramid evoked scorn from traditionalists . Progressive admirers hailed Pei's seventy-one-foot-  tall transparent pyramid as a dazzling synergy of ancient structure and modern method . Captain Fache's enormous palm wrapped around Langdon's with crushing force .
 Langdon wondered if Fache had any idea that this pyramid, at President Mitterrand's explicit demand, had been constructed of exactly 666 . The request had always been a hot topic among conspiracy buffs who claimed 666 was the number of Satan .
 The Louvre would require several hundred technicians simply to monitor the feeds . Opus Dei was the fastest-growing and most financially secure Catholic organization in the world . The media has referred to the group as "God's Mafia" and "the Cult of Christ" Bishop Aringarosa: "Opus DeI is neither a brainwashing cult or a secret society"
 Robert Langdon dons an ankle-length, hooded robe and dons it to protect himself . Langdon was staring into the mouth of a long, deep canyon at the Grand Gallery . The Grand Gallery housed the Louvre's most famous Italian art . The muted crimson lighting conjured memories of Langdon' s last experience in noninvasive lighting in the Vatican Secret Archives .
 Langdon: "Pagans" had become almost synonymous with devil worship . "The pentacle is a pre-Christian symbol that relates to Nature worship" The ancient Greeks envisioned their world in two halves — masculine and feminine . When male and female were balanced, there  was harmony in the world .
 Opus Dei's ascension to grace was jump-started in 1982 when Pope John Paul II unexpectedly elevated them to a "personal prelature of the Pope" The wealthy sect allegedly transferred almost one billion dollars into the Vatican's Institute for Religious Works .
 Sauniere had created a life-sized replica of Leonardo da Vinci's most famous sketch . The Vitruvian Man had become a modern-day icon of culture . Da Vinci exhumed corpses to study human anatomy and kept mysterious journals in reverse handwriting .
 Robert Langdon thought Bezu Fache was suffering a stroke when his jaw stopped moving and his eyes bulged . Langdon's excitement over the code gave way to a sudden ripple of concern . Sophie Neveu had been foisted on Fache two years ago as part of the ministry's attempt to incorporate more women into the police force .
 At 18, in a port town, while attempting to steal a case of cured ham from a cargo ship, he was caught by a pair of crewmen . The two sailors who began to beat him smelled of beer, just as his father had . Over the course of twelve years, his flesh and soul withered until he knew he had become transparent . The ghost could not remember the name his parents had given him .
 The Grand Gallery was a dead end whose only exit was at the other end . The external doors, if opened, would set off fire alarms and were guarded outside by DCPJ agents . Langdon could not possibly leave without Fache knowing about the situation . Fache and the ambassador locked horns regularly over shared affairs of state .
 Langdon had been called to the Louvre tonight not as a symbologist but rather as a suspect . Sophie Neveu apparently believed the curator had left her a cryptic postscript telling her to find Robert Langdon . "The Vitruvian Man" has always been my favorite Da Vinci sketch, she said flatly .
 Sophie pictured her grandfather's body, naked and spread-eagle on the floor . Fache was fighting the urge to go check on Langdon . Langdon needed to return of his own volition . Sophie vowed never to speak to anyone about what she had seen . Sophie's parents died when she was four when their car went off a bridge into fast-moving water .
 Langdon's secretary set the meeting and didn't offer any specific reason,  and I didn't ask . Sophie Neveu is the granddaughter of Jacques Sauniere, the grandson of the late Saunierier . Sophie needed more time with Langdon, but time was running out . Langdon was about to escape the Louvre, whether he wanted to or not .
 There were no trees or grass on the western end of the Denon Wing to cushion a fall . Langdon hoped Sophie was not thinking what she seemed to be thinking . The symbolism of the clues meshed too perfectly — the pentacle, The Vitruvian Man, Da Vinci, the goddess, and even the Fibonacci sequence .
 Langdon wished he could comprehend the cryptic message, both for Sophie's well-being and for his own . Sophie: "I'm certain his message at the Louvre was his final effort to tell me something important, something he  thought you could help me understand" Langdon dedicated an entire chapter in his new manuscript to the Tarot .
 Langdon unveiled PHI in the architectural dimensions of the Greek Parthenon, the pyramids of Egypt, and the United Nations Building in New York . PHI appeared in the organizational structures of Mozart's sonatas, Beethoven's Fifth ymphony, as well as the works of Bartok, Debussy, and Schubert . Langdon's grandfather used one of his anagrams to communicate with the Mona Lisa as a code .
 Sophie felt guilty turning Langdon into a fugitive only to abandon him, but she saw no other option . Langdon wondered what Sophie would find at the Mona Lisa... if anything . Sophie seemed certain her grandfather meant  she to visit the famous painting one more time .
 The zero longitude of the entire world had passed directly through Paris, and through the Church of Saint-Sulpice . The Salle des Etats was one of this museum's rare culs-de-sac — a dead end and the only  room off the middle of the Grand Gallery . Sophie had indeed seen the initials P.S. once before, in a kind of monogram .
 Langdon had never heard of the Priory's membership of some of history's most cultured individuals: men like Botticelli, Sir Isaac Newton, Victor Hugo . The identities of living Priory members are kept extremely secret . The keystone is hidden beneath the Rose Line at the base of the Sulpice obelisk .
 The Mona Lisa's well-documented collage of double entendres and playful allusions had been revealed in most art history tomes . Yet, incredibly, the public at large still considered her mystery a great mystery . Langdon: "It carries a subtle message of androgyny. It is a fusing of both"
 The Priory's tradition of perpetuating goddess worship is based on a belief that powerful men in the early Christian church 'conned' the world by propagating lies that tipped the scales in favor of the masculine . During three hundred years of witch hunts, the Church burned at the stake an astounding five million women .
 Silas laid the stone tablet on the altar and turned his eager hands to the leather Bible . Opus Dei is  searching for the keystone, Sister Sandrine knew . Sophie Neveu snatched the key from behind the painting and slipped it in her pocket along with the UV penlight .
 Sophie realized that Leonardo da Vinci, for the second time tonight, was there to help . Grouard screamed, frozen in horror as he watched the priceless Da Vinci stretching . Sophie gunned the SmartCar up and over a curb onto a gravel divider . Langdon wondered if Sophie had any idea how valuable a painting  she had almost ruined .
 Leonardo da Vinci's original commission for Madonna of the Rocks had come from an organization known  as the Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception . The key's complex series of laser-burned pockmarks was examined by an electric eye . Sophie knew of no churches that used laser-tooled varying matrix keys .
 Langdon wondered again if he might have been better off letting Fache arrest him at the Louvre . Langdon asked Sophie to explain the situation and have the embassy send someone to meet us somewhere . Sophie gunned the SmartCar into France's largest rotary, a nine-lane behemoth .
 Pope's summer residence is Castel Gandolfo, a sixteenth-century citadel that housed the Vatican Observatory . Vatican phoned to request Aringaosa's immediate presence in Rome five months ago . Vatican claimed this was to cut costs to better serve dioceses, but Aringarosa suspected it was more of a security measure .
 The Vatican's Astronomy Library is rumored to contain more than twenty-five thousand volumes, including rare works of Copernicus, Galileo, Kepler, Newton, Newton and Secchi . Langdon sniffed the key to his nose and sniffed it to his wife . "It smells like somebody polished it with a cleaner," she said .
 The Priory of Sion learned of a stash of hidden documents buried beneath the ruins of Herod's temple, which had been built atop the earlier ruins of Solomon's Temple . Langdon: "The Knights discovered something down there in the ruins... something that made them wealthy and powerful beyond anyone's wildest imagination"
 The Holy Grail is arguably the most sought-after treasure in human history . Langdon says the Priory guards the proof, and is purportedly awaiting the right moment in history to reveal the truth . The Grail has spawned legends, wars, and lifelong quests .
 The equal-armed cruciform was symbolic of balance and harmony but also of the Knights Templar . The Grail was believed to be buried in a hidden chamber beneath one of the many Templar churches, where it had been hidden since 1500 . The last Grail "sighting" had been in 1447 when eyewitnesses described a fire that had almost engulfed documents .
 Langdon was traveling with Sophie in a taxi from Zurich to New York . Sophie stopped the taxi at an imposing gate that blocked the bank's driveway . A video camera overhead was aimed directly at them, and Langdon had the feeling that this camera, unlike those at the Louvre, was authentic .
 Langdon's first visit to the Swiss safe-deposit box was his first visit . Langdon asked Sophie if she could use the room, and she nodded . "Your key is like a Swiss numbered account, which are often willed through generations"
 Langdon: "Mademoiselle, your family died in a car accident when you were young" Sophie needed only to read the first line to know Langdon was correct . The account number was 13-3-2-21-1-8-5 . Sophie realized the Fibonacci numbers were also a clue as to how to decipher the other lines .
 Langdon and Sophie Langdon were in the Depository Bank of Zurich's vault . Langdon wrapped the item in his jacket as they made their way through the hallways . The dimensions of the box, the apparent weight of its contents, and a Priory symbol for the Grail all seemed to imply one unfathomable conclusion: The Cup of Christ is in this wooden box .
 Langdon found a marble cylinder in a box filled with silk inside . The cylinder appeared to have been assembled in many pieces . Langdon wished he could call Bishop Aringarosa and warn him, but the Teacher had removed all their lines of direct communication tonight . Da Vinci had been a cryptology pioneer, Sophie knew, although he was seldom given credit .
 Langdon: The only way to access the information inside is to know the proper five-letter password . Leonardo da Vinci — former Grand Master of the Priory of Sion — designed the cryptex . The map to the Holy Grail was incorporated high in an archway of some forgotten church, mocking the blind churchgoers who wandered beneath it .
 The Grand Master of the Priory of Sion had just transferred the brotherhood's legendary keystone to his granddaughter and  commanded her to find Robert Langdon . Langdon suddenly recalled her mentioning how her grandfather used to make treasure hunts for her — preuves de merite .
 Langdon realized that any possibility of finding a way to return the keystone to the Priory had just evaporated . Sophie aligned the disks such that her chosen letters lined up between the cryptex's two brass alignment arrows on either end of the cylinder . Langdon gave it a hard kick and sensed he might be able to break it off entirely .
 The 185-acre estate of Chateau Villette was located twenty-five minutes northwest of Paris . Langdon had found him such a lively and colorful man on his last visit that it hardly seemed an infirmity . "Those who seek the truth are more than friends. They are brothers"
 Langdon and Sophie drove the armored truck up the winding, poplar-lined driveway toward the  house . Chateau Villette is a private, gated estate owned by  a good-natured foreigner . The air inside smelled antediluvian, regal somehow, with traces of pipe tobacco, tea leaves, cooking sherry, and earthen aroma of stone architecture .
 The pre-Christian God Mithras was born on December 25, died, was buried in a rock tomb, and then resurrected in three days . Constantine upgraded Jesus' status almost four centuries after Jesus' death . Those who 'chose' the original history of Christ were the  world's first heretics .
 The Last Supper is the entire key to the Holy Grail mystery, says Teabing . The Holy Grail represents the sacred feminine and the goddess, he says . Langdon: "The more penises you have, the higher your rank. Boys will be boys" Lt. Collet radioed the five cars accompanying him to Langdon's location .
 Sophie Langdon's grandfather, Richard Teabing, has written a book about the relationship between Jesus and Mary Magdalene . Sophie: "Jesus as a married man makes infinitely more sense than our standard  If Jesus were not married, at least one of the Bible's gospels would have mentioned it"
 Langdon: According to these unaltered gospels, it was not Peter to whom Christ gave directions with which  to establish the Christian Church . Sophie: Magdalene was recast as a whore in order to erase evidence of her powerful family ties . Teabing: "Mary Magdalenes was of royal descent"
 The Sangreal documents include tens of thousands of pages of information . In those trunks are reputed to be the Purist Documents, written by followers of Jesus . Also rumored to be part of the treasure is the legendary "Q" Document — a book of Jesus' izations, possibly written in His own hand .
 Christ's line grew quietly under cover in France until making a bold move in the fifth century, when it intermarried with French royal blood . Many of the Vatican's Grail quests were in fact stealth missions to erase members of the royal bloodline . Walt Disney loved infusing hidden messages and symbolism in his art .
 All four top members of the Priory ishlyof Sion were killed in a well-planned decapiter, Sophie says . Langdon: "Rome has been seeking the Grail for centuries" Sophie: "If they never divulged the secret, and they were killed, the location of the keystone would be lost forever!"
 Astrological prophecy never held much interest or credibility for Langdon . He knew there were those in the Church who followed it closely . Now that we've passed into the Age of Aquarius, "End of Days has arrived," he said . Sophie pulled the cruciform key from her sweater pocket and held it out to Teabing .
 Fache had gone out on a limb tonight to arrest Robert Langdon — surveillance cachee, Interpol, and now television . Lt. Collet was speechless . He prayed this was some kind of bizarre coincidence, but he knew it could not be . The key to finding the Holy Grail lies inside a stone cylinder, crafted of interconnecting dials .
 Police burst through the front door of Sir Leigh Teabing's estate with guns drawn . They found a bullet hole  on the drawing room floor, signs of a struggle, a small amount of blood, a strange, barbed leather belt, and a partially used roll of duct tape . Langdon drifted out again and Langdon was rescued by a knight brandishing an Excalibur made by Acme Orthopedic .
 Richard Teabing dialed the car phone on the dash . "My plane cost me a Queen's ransom," he said . "I am finished with France. I moved here to find the keystone. I shan't care if I ever again see Chateau Villette" "Sorry to get you involved in this, Leigh"
 Langdon: "I took no position on the Priory's actions" Sophie: "If Captain Fache didn't find the envelope in which your editor sent the manuscript, he would have concluded that you sent it and lied about it" Langdon shrugged: "A cruel coincidence, my friend," Langdon said . Sophie thought I'm fleeing the country, Sophie thought, her body forced back into the leather seat .
 The takeoff had been unscheduled, and no flight plan had been logged . Bill Gates had returned to his alma mater to lend to the museum one of his priceless acquisitions . Langdon: "To quote your words, 'You do not find the Grail, the Grail finds you,' "
 The Atbash Cipher was a simple substitution code based on the twenty-two-letter Hebrew alphabet . In Atbash, the first letter was substituted by the last letter, the second letter by the next to last letter . Langdon felt the physical world fade away as all of his thoughts converged on Sauniere's mirror-image poem .
 Langdon says the Hieros Gamos ritual is not a perversion, it's a deeply sacrosanct ceremony . Intercourse was the revered union of the two halves of the human spirit . Sex begot new life — the ultimate miracle — and miracles could agicallybe performed only by a god .
 Langdon explained to Sophie that Baphomet was a pagan fertility god associated with the creative force of reproduction . Sophie Neveu was shaken from recounting her experience of Hieros Gamos . Langdon popped a Coke and turned to the window, his thoughts awash with images of secret rituals and unbroken codes .
 Langdon felt a rising thrill that he imagined must have rivaled the thrill felt by early scholars when they first used the Atbash Cipher to decrypt the Mystery of Sheshach . Sophie knew that if this cryptex were like those she had opened in her youth, all she would need to do is grip the cylinder at both ends, just beyond the dials and pull, applying slow, steady pressure .
 The keystone has been found in the bank's president, Andre Vernet, who is involved in the hunt for the missing person . Langdon felt the web of symbolism stretching onward . Collet found notations scrawled in English describing a cathedral's long hollow nave as a secret pagan tribute to a woman's womb .
 The landing gear descended with a clunk and the plane was parked in front of the terminal . Eight policemen with handguns stood just inside the terminal building, awaiting the moment when the plane's engines powered down . A runway attendant would place safety wedges under the tires so the plane could no longer move . The Kent chief inspector offered Simon Edwards a chance to inspect the plane .
 Kent chief inspector felt distaste for Leigh Teabing as he hobbled around him in defiance . Langdon dragged the monk down the gangway to ground level and out of sight behind the limousine . Sophie unwrapped the vellum and handed the sheet to Langdon .
 Langdon thought of the notorious Templar round-up in 1307 when Pope Clement killed and interred hundreds of Knights Templar . The Temple Church was built in London by the Priory's military arm — the Knights Templar themselves . If the missing orb revealed the password, they would be able to open the second cryptex .
 The Temple Church was consecrated on the tenth of February in 1 185 by Heraclius, Patriarch of Jerusalem . The church survived eight centuries of political turmoil, the Great Fire of London, and the First World War, only to be heavily damaged by Luftwaffe incendiary bombs in 1940 . Langdon: "Religious allegory has become apart of the fabric of reality"
 Every year Sir Christopher Wren's descendants bring a pinch of the old man's ashes to scatter in the Temple sanctuary . He made possible all the restorations following damage caused by the Great Fire . "The Knights Templar were warriors," Teabing reminded Langdon . Langdon agreed, even from here, the walls looked unusually robust .
 Sophie noted that two of the knights wore tunics over their armor, while the other three wore ankle-length robes . The tomb was a sealed stone casket, not a knight lying in the open air . Langdon: "Yes, the poem definitely references a tomb. Not an effigy"
 Langdon held the black cryptex before him, waving it back and forth like a matador tempting a dumb animal . Langdon raised the cryptex high over his head, threatening to smash it on the floor . The cryptex was to be Remy's ticket to freedom and wealth . Remy circled behind him and rammed the pistol barrel into his back, high and on the left, directly behind his heart .
 Langdon felt utterly spent as he and Sophie hurdled a turnstile at Temple tube station and dashed deep into the grimy labyrinth of tunnels and platforms . Langdon knew these recording systems were generally placed in offices . Sophie would make Remy and Silas fugitives of the London police, forcing them into hiding or catching them .
 Langdon's guilt ripped through him as he followed Sophie to the platform, where she hurried to call the police . Sophie hung up and dashed with Langdon onto the train . Fache found a stone cylinder with lettered dials spelling SOFIA inside it .
 Langdon and Sophie had decided to share just the  first two lines of the poem to an outsider . Compartmentalized cryptography, Sophie had called it "the cryptex" When an intelligence agency intercepted a code containing sensitive data, cryptographers each worked on a discrete section of the code .
 Langdon asked Pamela Gettum to find out who this knight is and where he is buried . Langdon said, "It's a long story and we have very little time" Silas wondered about Teabing, whom Remy had left bound in the back of the limousine . St. James's Park is a sea of green in the middle of London .
 The Opus Dei Centre in London is located at 5 Orme Court . Pamela Gettum was in the adjoining room preparing hot drinks . Langdon knew it was no coincidence that the word minstrel and minister shared an etymological root . The troubadours were  traveling servants or "ministers" of the Church of Mary Magdalene .
 Silas had no idea what had awoken him or how long he had been asleep . Westminster Abbey is considered neither cathedral nor parish church . Designed in the style of the great cathedrals of Amiens, Chartres, and Canterbury . It bears the classification of royal peculiar, subject only to the Sovereign .
 The Teacher pondered Sauniere's beguiling riddle: You seek the orb that ought to be on his tomb . Massive orb protruding from the face of the pyramid was carved in basso-relievo and depicted all  kinds of heavenly bodies . Langdon couldn't shake the image of Leigh Teabing being held captive, probably tied up in the back of his own limousine .
 The only link between the planets and the Grail that Langdon could imagine was the pentacle of Venus . Sophie spotted a charcoal pencil on the sarcophagus lid near Newton's foot . A careless tourist had left a charcoal, grave-rubbing charcoal pencil . Langdon wished he had some idea about the cryptex password .
 The dials were still in random order, and the cryptex remained locked . Langdon eyed Teabing, "How do you know I won't smash it right now?" Sophie flashed on her grandfather's overprotectiveness, how he never liked to leave her alone when she was young .
 The Temple Church was the perfect location to steal the keystone from Robert and Sophie . Its apparent relevance to the poem made it a plausible decoy . Opus Dei will no longer be considered a prelature of the Vatican six months from today . The Vatican's Secretariat Council voted unanimously to revoke the Vatican's sanction  of the group .
 Robert Langdon's years in the classroom had not imbued him with any skills relevant to handling confrontations at gunpoint . Langdon hoped his focus on the cryptex signaled Teabing that collaboration might be an option, and that his silence signaled Sophie he had not abandoned her .
 Langdon phoned Sophie to warn her she might be in danger . Sophie's eyes looked as if they would well with tears, but they did not . Sophie said, "How? By unveiling the secret my grandfather died trying to protect? He trusted you, Robert"
 Captain Bezu Fache has successfully arrested the man responsible for the murder of Robert Langdon and Sophie Neveu . Lieutenant Collet says he suspects Langdon was part of a ruse to lure out the real killer . Some of Fache's intended targets received lavish gifts of artwork . Others unwittingly bid at auctions in which Teabing had placed specific lots .
 The Knights Templar designed Rosslyn Chapel as an exact architectural blueprint of Solomon's Temple in Jerusalem . Every surface in the chapel had been carved with symbols — Christian cruciforms, Jewish stars, Masonic seals, Templar crosses, cornucopias, pyramids, astrological signs, plants, vegetables, pentacles, and roses .
 Langdon's heart pounded as he approached the fieldstone house . Langdon had offered to give Sophie and her grandmother  time to talk in private, but Marie had asked him to stay and listen . Sophie wandered off to look at the code and left Langdon holding the rosewood box, which contained a Grail map . The poem made reference to a "blade and chalice," Langdon saw nowhere .
 Langdon could not escape the hollow gnaw of Rosslyn's unsolved mystery . Is the Grail really here at Rosslyn? And if so, where are the blade and chalice that Sauniere mentioned in his poem? Langdon sensed the story went far deeper, but he also sensed it was not for him to hear . Langdon asked, "Why is it that men simply cannot let the Grail rest?"
 The Sphinx was conceived and commissioned in the 1980s by the Sphinx himself, Francois Mitterrand . The keystone is supposed to point to the place where the Holy Grail is hidden now, Langdon asked . Sophie asked Langdon to stay with her family for a few days .
 The quest for the Holy Grail is the quest to kneel before the bones of Mary Magdalene . Robert Langdon heard Marie Chauvel's words . Langdon was standing beneath the ancient Rose Line, surrounded by the work of masters .
