 "The Da Vinci Code" is written by Dan Brown . The book is published by Doubleday, Inc., Inc. and is available now on Amazon.com/Da Vinci.com . Dan Brown is the author of the first edition of the novel .
 The Louvre Museum, the French Ministry of Culture, Project Gutenberg, Bibliotheque Nationale, the Gnostic Society Library, the Department of Paintings Study and Documentation Service at the Louvre, Royal Observatory Greenwich, London Record Society, the Muniment Collection at Westminster Abbey, John Pike and the Federation of American Scientists .
 The Priory of Sion — a European secret society founded in 1099 — is a real organization . Author's wife Blythe Brown is the most astonishingly talented woman I have ever known . Author thanks Water Street Bookstore for tracking down so many of his research books .
 The Vatican prelature known as Opus Dei is a deeply devout Catholic sect that has been the topic of recent controversy due to reports of brainwashing, coercion, and a dangerous practice known as  "corporal mortification" The Priory of Sion has just completed construction of a $47 million World Headquarters in New York City . All descriptions of artwork, architecture, documents, and secret rituals in this novel are accurate .
 Grabbing the gilded frame, the curator heaved it toward himself until it tore from the wall and collapsed backward in a heap beneath the canvas . A thundering iron gate fell nearby, barricading the entrance to the suite . The curator lay a moment, gasping for breath, taking stock. / am still alive.
 "You are lying," the curator stammered, kneeling defenseless on the floor of the gallery . "You and your brethren possess something that is not yours," the man said . "Now tell me where it is, and you will live," Sauniere said .
 The curator's true identity, along with the identities of his three senechaux, was almost as sacred as the ancient secret they protected . Sauniere's identity was revealed by his attacker, who smiled smugly . "When you are gone, I will be the only one who knows the truth," he said .
 The click of an empty chamber echoed through the corridor . Sauniere closed his eyes, his thoughts a swirling tempest of fear and regret . Almost cruelly, the bullet had missed his heart . For fifteen minutes, he would survive as stomach acids seeped into his chest, slowly poisoning him from within .
 Jacques Sauniere was the sole guardian of one of the most powerful secrets ever kept . He was trapped inside the Grand Gallery, and there existed only one person on earth to whom he  could pass the torch . He thought of the generations who had come before them... of the mission with which they had all been entrusted .
 Robert Langdon wakes up in a plush Renaissance bedroom with Louis XVI furniture, hand-frescoed walls, and a colossal mahogany four-poster bed . Langdon had been asleep only an hour, but he felt like the dead . He summoned all of his faculties and strength .
 A visitor? Langdon still felt fuzzy . Langdon's lecture about pagan symbolism had probably ruffled some conservative feathers in the audience . Most likely, some religious scholar had trailed him home to pick a fight . "I'm sorry," Langdon said, "but I'm very tired and — "
 Robert Langdon's visibility had increased a hundredfold since his involvement in a widely publicized incident at the Vatican last year . Langdon frowned at his bedside Guest Relations Handbook, whose cover boasted: "SLEEP LIKE A BABY in the City of Lights. SLUMBER at the Paris RITZ"
 The past year had taken a heavy toll on him, but he didn't appreciate seeing proof in the mirror . His usually sharp blue eyes looked hazy and drawn tonight . A dark stubble was shrouding his strong jaw and dimpled chin . The gray highlights were advancing, making their way deeper into his thicket of coarse black hair .
 Langdon cringed as the hostess read choice excerpts from an article from Boston Magazine . Langdon felt himself sinking lower in his chair . The crowd was grinning, and the woman showed no signs of letting up . The hostess began reading choice excerpts of the article .
 Langdon's refusal to speak publicly about his unusual role in last  year's Vatican conclave certainly wins him points on our intrigue-o-meter." The hostess goaded the crowd to hear more . Langdon forced an awkward smile as she dove into the article again .
 "Boston Magazine clearly has a gift for fiction," Langdon said . "If I find which one of you provided that article, I'll have the consulate agicallydeport you," he said . Langdon was wide awake now. "You sent someone to my room?" "I apologize, monsieur, but a man like this... I cannot presume the authority to stop him."
 "Mr. Langdon? I need to speak with you." Langdon slid off the bed, feeling his toes sink deep into the savonniere carpet . The DCPJ was the rough equivalent of the U.S. FBI . "My capitaine requires your expertise in a private matter," the agent said .
 Langdon felt a sudden surge of uneasiness . He and the revered curator Jacques Sauniere had been slated to meet for drinks after Langdon's lecture tonight . "We found your name in his daily planner." Langdon stared at the bizarre image, his initial revulsion and shock gave way to a sudden upwelling of anger .
 A little over a year ago, Langdon had received a photograph of a corpse and a similar request for help . Twenty-four hours later, he had almost lost his life inside Vatican City . This photo was entirely different, and yet  something about the scenario felt disquietingly familiar .
 Silas felt he had begun to repay his debt . The spiked cilice belt that he wore around his thigh cut  into his flesh, and yet his soul sang with satisfaction of service to the Lord . The Lord has provided me shelter and purpose in my life, Silas says .
 Silas knew the information he had gleaned from his victims would come as a shock . He heard a quick intake of breath over the phone and could feel the Teacher's excitement . "Teacher, all four confirmed the existence of the clef de voiite... the legendary keystone"
 According to lore, the brotherhood had created a map of stone — a clef de voiite... or keystone — an engraved tablet that revealed the final resting place of their greatest secret . "When we possess the keystone," the Teacher said, "we will be only one step away." "Paris? Incredible. It is almost too easy," Silas said .
 Silas knew the stakes were incalculable, and yet what the Teacher was now commanding seemed impossible . The Teacher fell silent, as if letting the triumph of this moment settle over him . "But the church, it is a fortress. Especially at night. How will I enter?" Silas asked .
 All true followers of The Way wore this device — a leather strap studded with sharp metal barbs that cut into the flesh as a perpetual reminder of Christ's suffering . The pain caused by the device also helped counteract the desires of the flesh .
 Although Escriva died in 1975, his wisdom lived on, his words still lived on . Thousands of faithful servants around the globe perform the sacred practice known as "corporal mortification" Silas turned his attention to a heavy knotted rope coiled neatly on the floor beside him . The knots were caked with dried blood .
 Langdon could not help but feel a deep sense of loss at the curator's death . The frightening image of the curator's body remained locked in his mind . Despite Sauniere's reputation for being reclusive, he was an easy man to reverevere .
 The Citroen navigated the chaos with authority, its dissonant two-tone siren parting the traffic like a knife . Langdon viewed the world as a web of profoundly intertwined histories and events . The connections may be invisible, he often preached to his symbology classes at Harvard, but they are always there .
 Langdon thought of the Eiffel Tower as the Citroen sped southward across the city . He last kissed Vittoria in a noisy airport in Rome more than a year ago . Langdon said, "I assume the American University of Paris told you where I was staying?" The driver shook his head. "Interpol." Langdon had forgotten that the request of all European hotels to see a passport at check-in was more  than a quaint formality .
 "She is the symbol of France. I think she is perfect," Langdon says of the Eiffel Tower . The agent gunned the sedan across the junction and sped onto a wooded section of Rue Castiglione, which served as the northern entrance to the famed Tuileries Gardens .
 Jardins des Tuileries was once an enormous, polluted excavation pit from which Parisian contractors mined clay to manufacture the city's famous red roofing tiles . Langdon had always considered the Tuilery to be sacred ground . These were the gardens in which Monet had experimented with form and color, and literally inspired the birth of the  Impressionist movement .
 From the esplanade at the end of the Tuileries Gardens, four of the finest art museums in the world could be seen... one at each point of the compass . The Citroen swerved left now, angling west down the park's central boulevard .
 The Louvre was the longest  building in Europe, stretching farther than three Eiffel Towers laid end to end . Langdon had once walked the Louvre's entire perimeter, an astonishing three-mile journey . The museum is the most famous art museum in the world .
 The driver pulled out a handheld walkie-talkie and spoke in rapid-fire French . The driver ignored the signs prohibiting auto traffic on the plaza, revved the engine, and gunned the Citroen up over the curb . The Louvre's main entrance was visible now, rising boldly in the  distance, encircled by seven triangular pools .
 The new entrance to the Paris Louvre had become almost as famous as the museum itself . The controversial, neomodern glass pyramid evoked scorn from traditionalists who felt it destroyed the dignity of the Renaissance courtyard . Progressive admirers hailed Pei's seventy-one-foot-  tall transparent pyramid as a dazzling synergy of ancient structure and modern method .
 The late French president commissioned the pyramid was said to have suffered from a "Pharaoh complex" Francois Mitterrand had an affinity for Egyptian culture that was so all-consuming that the French still referred to him as the Sphinx . "Your French is better than you admit, Monsieur Langdon," the driver said .
 The agent pulled the car to a stop and pointed between two fountains to a large door in the side of the pyramid . "There is the entrance. Good luck, monsieur." Langdon heaved a sigh and climbed out of the car . The agent revved his engine and sped off .
 Langdon strode to the main entrance — an enormous revolving door . Langdon wondered if any of Harvard's revered Egyptologists had ever knocked on the front door of a pyramid and expected an answer . He raised his hand to bang on the glass, but out of the darkness, a figure appeared, striding up the curving staircase .
 Fache's enormous palm wrapped around Langdon's with crushing force . "I saw the photo," Langdon said . "Your agent said Jacques Sauniere himself did — " Fache said . Langdon followed the captain down the famous marble staircase into the sunken atrium beneath a sunken pyramid .
 The message was clear: Nobody goes in or out tonight without the blessing of Captain Fache . Fache's presence was anything but welcoming, and the Louvre itself had an almost sepulchral aura at this hour . Langdon sensed his host was a hard man to please .
 The Louvre's newly constructed 70,000-square-foot lobby spread out like an endless grotto . Langdon wondered if Fache had any idea that this pyramid, at President Mitterrand's explicit demand, had been constructed of exactly 666 . The request had always been a hot topic among conspiracy buffs who claimed 666 was the number of Satan .
 "Obviously, someone gained entry tonight who should not have. All Louvre night wardens  are in the Sully Wing being questioned. My own agents have taken over museum security for the evening." Langdon caught a glimpse of the lesser-known pyramid — La Pyramide Inversee — a huge inverted skylight that hung from the ceiling like a stalactite in an adjoining section of the entresol .
 Fache asked Langdon if he knew who requested tonight's meeting with him . Langdon had been curious at the time but had not felt comfortable demanding specifics . The venerated Jacques Sauniere granted very few meetings; Langdon was grateful simply for the opportunity to meet him .
 Langdon: "I'm an admirer of Mr. Sauniere's work. I use his texts  often in my classes" Fache: "Essentially, the manuscript is about the iconography of goddess worship — the concept of female sanctity and the art and symbols associated with it."
 Jacques Sauniere was considered the premiere goddess iconographer on earth . He helped the Louvre amass the largest collection of goddess art on earth, including labrys axes, gold caducei wands and hundreds of Tjet ankhs . Langdon sensed Fache did not see at all .
 The three-hundred-page draft — tentatively titled Symbols of the Lost Sacred Feminine — proposed some very  unconventional interpretations of established religious iconography . Langdon did not add the reason he hadn't yet shown the manuscript to anyone else .
 As a boy, Langdon suffered a haunting phobia of enclosed spaces . Langdon had fallen down an abandoned well shaft and almost died treading water in the narrow space for hours before being rescued . The elevator is a perfectly safe machine, he continually told himself .
 Captain Fache's tie clip was a silver crucifix with thirteen embedded pieces of black onyx . The symbol was known as a crux gemmata — a cross bearing thirteen gems — a Christian ideogram for Christ and His twelve iopostles .
 Usually impeccably illuminated, the Louvre galleries were startlingly dark tonight . Instead of the customary flat-white light flowing down from above, a muted red glow seemed to emanate upward from the baseboards . Long shadows encroached everywhere, and the usually vaulted vaulted ceilings appeared as a low, black void .
 Langdon traveled through a series of interconnected galleries in the museum . Large-format oils began to materialize like photos developing before him in an enormous darkroom . He could taste the familiar tang of museum air — an arid, deionized essence that carried a faint hint of carbon .
 The Louvre would require several hundred technicians simply to monitor the feeds . Most large museums now used "containment security" to keep thieves out . Containment was activated after hours, compartmentalized exits would seal around that gallery . The sound of voices echoed down the marble corridor up ahead .
 The curator's private office had become DCPJ's makeshift command post for the evening . Fache led Langdon to the Louvre's most popular section — la Grande Galerie — a seemingly endless corridor that housed the most valuable Italian masterpieces . Langdon hung enough signs on hotel room doors to catch the gist of the  captain's orders .
 The Louvre's Grand Gallery's famous parquet floor was unmistakable in the Polaroid . As they approached, Langdon saw the entrance was blocked by an enormous steel grate . Fache motioned toward the floor at the base of the grate . "This area is still off limits to Louvre security," Fache said .
 The barricade looked like a guillotine waiting to crush intruders . Fache motioned to the narrow crawl space at his feet and then up at the massive iron grate . "Please slide under," he said . Langdon grumbled something in French and checked his watch .
 The 133,000-square-foot tower is clad in red brick and Indiana limestone . The second, eighth, and sixthteenth floors contain chapels, ornamented with mill-  work and marble . The seventeenth floor is entirely residential. Men enter the building through the  main doors on Lexington Avenue .
 Bishop Aringarosa was traveling among the public, but he preferred not to draw attention to his high office . Only those with a keen eye would notice his 14-karat gold bishop's ring with purple amethyst, large diamonds, and hand-tooled mitre-crozier applique .
 Opus Dei was the fastest-growing and most financially secure Catholic organization in the world . The congregation was founded in 1928 by the Spanish priest Josemaria Escriva . It promoted a return to conservative Catholic values and encouraged members to make sweeping sacrifices in order to do the Work of God .
 Opus Dei's escalating wealth and power was a magnet for suspicion . Bishop Aringarosa: "Opus DeI is neither a brainwashing cult or a secret society" "We are a Catholic Church. We are a group of Catholics who have chosen as our priority to follow Catholic doctrine," he says .
 A few misguided souls cast a shadow  over Opus Dei, says Aringarosa . The media always gravitated toward scandal, he says, but reason seldom worked, though . A disillusioned young investment banker had signed over his entire life savings to the group before attempting suicide .
 Opus Dei watch group's website warns of dangers of joining the group . The media has referred to the group as "God's Mafia" and "the Cult of Christ" The group enjoyed the full endorsement and blessing of the Vatican, Aringarosa says .
 Opus Dei had found itself threatened by a force infinitely more powerful than media . Five months ago, the kaleidoscope of power had been shaken, and Aringarosa was still reeling from the blow . "They know not the war they have begun," he whispered to himself .
 Bishop Aringarosa knew this was a call he could not miss . Despite airline regulations prohibiting the use of cell phones during flights, Aringarosa answered the phone . "Silas has located the keystone," the caller said. "It is in Paris. Within the Church of Saint-Sulpice"
 Silas was feeling an aroused anticipation that he had not felt since his previous life . For the last decade, he had been following The Way, cleansing  himself of sins... rebuilding his life... erasing the violence in his past . Tonight, however, it had all agicallycome rushing back. The hatred he had fought so hard to bury had been summoned .
 Robert Langdon dons an ankle-length, hooded robe and dons it to protect himself . Langdon was staring into the mouth of a long, deep canyon at the Grand Gallery . The wheels  are in motion, Langdon says, and the wheels are now in motion .
 The Grand Gallery housed the Louvre's most famous Italian art . Many visitors felt the Grand Gallery's most stunning offering was its parquet floor . The floor produced an ephemeral optical illusion — a multi-dimensional network that gave visitors the sense they were floating through the gallery .
 Langdon looked back at the gate, trying to picture what had happened . "The curator was attacked in his office, fled into the Grand Gallery, and activated the security gate by pulling that painting from the wall," Fache said . "This is the only door in or out of this gallery," he said .
 The length of the Grand Gallery is around fifteen hundred feet, the length of three Washington Monuments laid end to end . The corridor's width could have accommodated a pair of side-by-side passenger trains . The center of the hallway was dotted by the occasional statue or colossal porcelain urns .
 The muted crimson lighting conjured memories of Langdon' s last experience in  noninvasive lighting in the Vatican Secret Archives . This was tonight's second unsettling parallel  with his near-death in Rome . He flashed on Vittoria again. She had been absent from his dreams for months .
 Louvre security responded immediately to the alarm and found the Grand Gallery sealed . They could hear someone moving around at the far end of the corridor, but they could not see who it was . "Mr. Sauniere suffered a bullet wound to his stomach. He died very slowly. Perhaps over fifteen or  twenty minutes."
 Fache sent a dozen armed agents inside the gallery to corner the intruder . Langdon felt a deep chill as they approached the body . "You saw the photograph," Fache said, "so this should be of no surprise." The corpse of the curator lay naked on the parquet floor .
 The pallid corpse of Jacques Sauniere lay on the parquet floor exactly as it appeared in the photograph . Langdon stood over the body and squinted in the harsh light, he reminded himself of his amazement . The wound had bled surprisingly little, leaving only a small pool of blackened blood .
 Sauniere's left index finger was also bloody, apparently having been dipped into the wound to  create the most unsettling aspect of his own macabre deathbed . Using his own blood as ink, and employing his own naked abdomen as a canvas, he drew a simple symbol on his naked abdomen . "It's a pentacle," Langdon offered, his voice feeling hollow in the huge space .
 Langdon: "Pagans" had become almost synonymous with devil worship . The word's roots reached back to the Latin paganus, meaning country-folk who clung to the old, rural religions . The pentacle is a pagan religious symbol, Langdon says .
 Langdon: "The pentacle is a pre-Christian symbol that relates to Nature worship" The ancient Greeks envisioned their world in two halves — masculine and feminine . Their gods and goddesses  worked to keep a balance of power. When male and female were balanced, there  was harmony in the world .
 Fache looked more troubled now, as if he preferred the idea of devil worship . Langdon decided not to share the pentacle's most astonishing property — the graphic origin of its ties to Venus . As a young astronomy student, Langdon had been stunned to learn the planet Venus traced a perfect pentacle every four years .
 The five-pointed star was now a virtual cliche in Satanic  serial killer movies, usually scrawled on the wall of some Satanist's apartment along with other alleged demonic symbology . Langdon was always frustrated when he saw the symbol in this context; the pentacle's true origins were actually quite godly .
 The original feminine meaning is correct, but the symbolism of the pentacle has been distorted over the millennia . "I'm not sure I follow," Langdon says . "This is very common in times of turmoil," he says .
 In the battle between the pagan symbols and Christian symbols, Poseidon's trident became the devil's pitchfork, the wise crone's pointed hat became the symbol of a witch . The U.S. military has also perverted the pentacle; it's now our foremost symbol of war .
 Langdon's best guess was that a naked human form was yet another endorsement of Venus — the goddess of human sexuality . Fache's eyes followed the five points of Sauniere's arms, legs, and head as he again ran a hand  across his slick hair . Langdon decided not to go there .
 Langdon's eyes traced the length of the curator's pale arm to his left hand but saw nothing . He circled the corpse and crouched down, noting with surprise that the curator was clutching a large felt-tipped marker . Langdon knelt down farther to see the pen's label: STYLO DE LUMIERE NOIRE .
 The black-light pen or watermark stylus was a specialized felt-tipped marker originally designed  by museums, restorers, and forgery police to place invisible marks on items . The stylus wrote in a noncorrosive, alcohol-based fluorescent ink that was visible only under black light .
 Langdon looked down and jumped back in shock . His heart pounded as he took in the bizarre sight now glowing before him on the parquet floor . Lieutenant Collet had returned to the Louvre and was huddled over an audio console set up on the curator's enormous desk .
 The modest dwelling within the Church of Saint-Sulpice was located on the second floor of the church itself, to the left of the choir balcony . A two-room suite with a stone floor and minimal furnishings, it had been home to Sister Sandrine Bieil for over a decade .
 Sister Sandrine was the church's conservatrice d'affaires . She was responsible for overseeing all nonreligious aspects of church operations . Her boss had never been awoken by her boss, a deeply pious man who went home to bed immediately after mass .
 Opus Dei's ascension to grace was jump-started in 1982 when Pope John Paul II unexpectedly elevated them to a "personal prelature of the Pope" The wealthy sect allegedly transferred almost one billion dollars into the Vatican's Institute for Religious Works .
 One of his Opus Dei numerary is in Paris tonight, Sister Sandrine heard . She felt a deepening confusion as she listened to the odd request . "Sister, I agree, and yet I would consider it a personal favor if you could let him in tonight. He can agicallybe there at... say one o'clock? That's in twenty minutes."
 Opus Dei's views on women were medieval at best, says Sister Sandrine . She was shocked to learn that female numeraries were forced to clean the urchmen's residence halls for no pay while the men were at mass . Women slept on hardwood floors, while men had straw mats, and women had to endure additional requirements of corporal mortification .
 Jacques Sauniere's final communication seemed as unlikely a departing message as any Langdon could imagine . The message read:  13-3-2-21-1-8-5 . Langdon had not the slightest idea what it meant, he did understand Fache's instinct that it had something to do with devil worship .
 Do the numbers have any symbolic meaning to you?" Langdon looked again at the digits, sensing it would take him hours to extract any symbolic meaning if Sauniere had even intended any . Langdon tried to imagine the curator's final minutes trapped alone in the Grand Gallery, knowing he was about to die .
 A dying man had barricaded himself in the gallery, drawn a pentacle on himself, and scrawled a mysterious accusation on the floor . "An accusation against his murderer makes sense, I suppose." "My job, of course, is to put a name to that person. Let me ask you this, Mr. Langdon. To your eye, beyond the numbers, what about this message is most strange?" Fache's tone came with a tinge
 "Perhaps this will clarify," Fache says of Sauniere's final words . Langdon shrugs, "I'm sorry I can't be of more help." Fache backs away from the body and raises the black light again,  letting the beam spread out in a wider angle .
 Sauniere had created a life-sized replica of Leonardo da Vinci's most famous sketch . The Vitruvian Man had become a modern-day icon of culture, appearing on posters, mouse pads, and T-shirts around the world .
 A feminine symbol of protection, the circle around the naked man's body completed Da Vinci's intended message — male and female harmony . The question now, though, was why Sauniere would imitate a famous drawing . "Mr. Langdon," Fache said, "certainly a man like yourself is aware that Leonardo da Vinci had a                 tendency toward the darker arts"
 Da Vinci exhumed corpses to study human anatomy and kept mysterious journals in reverse handwriting . He believed he possessed the alchemic power to turn lead into gold and even cheat God by creating an elixir to postpone death . The artist's enormous output of breathtaking Christian art only furthered the artist's reputation for spiritual hypocrisy .
 Leonardo incorporated in many of his Christian paintings hidden symbolism that was anything but Christian — tributes to his own beliefs . Langdon had even given a lecture once at the National Gallery in London entitled: "The Secret Life of Leonardo: Pagan Symbolism in Christian Art"
 Maybe Sauniere was simply echoing some of their shared frustrations with the modern Church's demonization of the goddess," Fache said . Langdon had to admit it seemed far-fetched, and yet the pentacle seemed to endorse the idea on some level .
 Fache's jaw tightened as he spoke through clenched teeth . "I believe Sauniere wrote this note to tell us who killed him," he said . Langdon stared at Fache, tired and frustrated . "But that makes no sense whatsoever," Langdon said .
 The delicate art of cajoler was a lost skill in modern law enforcement, one that required exceptional poise under pressure . Few men possessed the necessary sangfroid for this kind of operation, but Fache seemed born for it .
 Fache's sole emotion this evening seemed to be one of intense resolve, as if this arrest were  somehow personal to him . Collet was not yet privy to the evidence that had cemented their certainty of their suspect's guilt . Fache attended mass and confession with zealous regularity — far  more than the requisite holiday attendance fulfilled by other officials .
 Collet found it ironic that one of Fache's rare popular public stances in recent years had been his outspoken reaction to the Catholic pedophilia scandal . Collet had the odd sense it was the latter that angered Fache more . Turning now to his laptop computer, Collet attended to the other half of his responsibilities .
 Bezu Fache was keeping his prey on a very tight leash tonight . Robert Langdon had proven  himself one cool customer. Fache felt his teeth clench in rage. He could imagine nothing important enough that Collet would interrupt this surveillance cachee — especially at this critical juncture .
 Fache had uploaded photos of the crime scene to the Cryptography Department . Sophie Neveu was one of Fache's biggest mistakes . She had been foisted on Fache two years ago as part of the ministry's attempt to incorporate more women into the police force .
 Sophie Neveu was proving far more distracting than Fache had feared . At thirty-two years old, she had a dogged determination that bordered on obstinate . Her eager espousal of Britain's new cryptologic methodology continually exasperated the veteran French cryptographers above her .
 Robert Langdon thought Bezu Fache was suffering a stroke . The captain was mid-sentence when his jaw stopped moving and his eyes bulged . His blistering gaze seemed fixated on something over Langdon's shoulder . Before Langdon could turn to see what it was, he heard a young woman approaching .
 Sophie Neveu from DCPJ's Cryptology Department. "I've deciphered the numeric code," she said flatly . Langdon felt a pulse of excitement . Fache drew a seething inhalation, clearly preparing to launch into a reprimand . Sophie continued in English, as if out of courtesy to Langdon .
 Langdon's excitement over the code gave way to a sudden ripple of concern . Langdon tried to imagine who could be trying to reach him . "You need to contact the U.S. Embassy, Mr. Langdon," Sophie said . Fache's broad jaw tightened with the news .
 Captain Fache's brow furrowed in apparent confusion, but Sophie had already turned back to Langdon . "Mr. Langdon," she declared, pulling a small slip of paper from her pocket, "this is the number for  your embassy's messaging service" Langdon studied the slip with a Paris phone number and extension on it .
 Langdon felt mystified by Fache's anger with Sophie Neveu . Fache immediately marched Sophie several steps away and began chastising her in hushed tones . Disliking the captain more and more, Langdon turned away from the odd confrontation and switched on the phone .
 Langdon punched in the extension on the slip of paper: 454 . Sophie's outgoing message immediately cut off, and Langdon heard an electronic voice announce  in French: "You have one new message" Apparently, 454 was Sophie's remote access code for picking up her messages while away from home .
 Langdon listened as the voice on the line was Sophie's . "Mr. Langdon," the message began in a fearful whisper . "Do not react to this message. Just listen calmly. You are in danger right now."
 Silas fought that familiar undertow that often dragged his mind back in time, locking him once again in the prison that had been his  prison as a young man . Release your hatred, Silas commanded himself . Forgive those who trespassed against you .
 Silas had not realized it at the time that he had been saved . His name was not Silas then, although he didn't recall the name his parents had given him . His drunken father, a burly dockworker, beat his mother regularly, blaming her for the boy's embarrassing condition . When the boy tried to defend her, he too was badly beaten .
 The boy stabbed his father in the back without a word . He was forced to live alone in the basement of a dilapidated factory, eating stolen fruit and raw fish from the dock . His only companions were tattered magazines he found in the trash, and he taught himself to read them . Over time, the looks of pity on the streets turned to  fear .
 At 18, in a port town, while attempting to steal a case of cured ham from a cargo ship, he was  caught by a pair of crewmen . The two sailors who began to beat him smelled of beer, just as his father had . The young man broke the first sailor's neck with his bare hands . Two months later, in shackles, he arrived at a prison in Andorra .
 Over the course of twelve years, his flesh and soul withered until he knew he had become transparent . One night the ghost awoke to the screams of other inmates . He didn't know what invisible force was shaking the floor on which he slept . But as he jumped to his feet, a large boulder toppled onto the very spot where he had been sleeping .
 The ghost awoke at dawn in a clearing where train tracks cut a path across the forest . Following the rails, he moved on as if dreaming . Seeing an empty freight car, he crawled in for shelter and rest . When he awoke the train was moving and a pain was growing in his gut .
 Food appeared beside his bed, and the ghost ate it, almost able to feel the flesh materializing on his bones . When he awoke, Jesus was still smiling down, speaking. You are saved, my son. Blessed are those who follow my path.
 The ghost could not remember the name his parents had given him . All he heard were the taunting gibes of the prison guards . Years had passed since anyone had shown any kindness . The ghost awoke in the morning, his world felt clearer . He gazed up at the crucifix on the crucifix above his bed .
 The ghost was surprised to find a newspaper clipping on his bedside table . It told of an earthquake in the mountains that had destroyed a prison and freed many dangerous criminals . His heart began pounding. The priest knows who I am! The emotion he felt was one he had not felt  for some time .
 Bishop Aringarosa wished he could call Silas to tell him how plans in Paris were progressing . But he could not . The Teacher had seen to that. "It is for your own safety," the Teacher had explained, speaking in English with a French accent . The ghost nodded blankly. He had been given flesh.
 The Teacher had somehow obtained very secret information . The names of the brotherhood' s four top members! This had been one of the coups that convinced the bishop the Teacher was truly capable of delivering the astonishing prize he claimed he could unearth .
 Twenty million euro, the bishop thought, now gazing out the plane's window . The sum was approximately the same number of U.S. dollars . He felt a renewed confidence that the Teacher and Silas would not fail . Money and faith were rearable motivators .
 1-1-2-3-5-8-13-21: "This code is simplistic to the point of absurdity," Sophie explains in rapid French . "All you did was put the numbers in increasing order!" Sophie actually had the nerve to give a satisfied smile . Fache's tone lowered to a guttural rumble .
 The sequence of numbers you have in your hand happens to be one of the most famous mathematical progressions in history." Fache was not aware there even existed a mathematical progression that qualified as famous, and he certainly didn't appreciate Sophie's off-handed tone . "This is the Fibonacci sequence," she declared, nodding toward the piece of paper in Fache's hand .
 Sophie shrugged, "It's a simplistic cryptographic joke" Fache took a menacing step forward, placing his face only inches from Sophie's . Sophie's soft features grew surprisingly stern as she leaned in . She turned on her heel, and marched off the way she had come . Stunned Fache watched her disappear into the darkness .
 Bezu Fache despised many things... but a few drew more wrath than the U.S. Embassy . Fache and the ambassador locked horns regularly over shared affairs of state . Almost daily, DCPJ arrested American  exchange students in possession of drugs, businessmen for soliciting underage prostitutes .
 Paris Match had run a cartoon recently depicting Fache as a police dog, trying to bite an American criminal, but unable to reach because it was chained to the U.S. Embassy . Not tonight, Fache told himself . By the time Robert Langdon hung up the phone, he looked ill .
 Fache frowned inwardly at the delay . Langdon nodded absently and took a few steps toward the bench . "Actually, I think I'd like to use the rest room." He motioned back down the long hallway in the direction they had come from . "The rest rooms are back toward the curator's office," Langdon said .
 The Grand Gallery was a dead end whose only exit was at the other end . French fire regulations required  several emergency stairwells for a space this large . The external doors, if opened, would set off fire alarms and were guarded outside by DCPJ agents . Langdon could not possibly leave without Fache knowing about the situation .
 Fache stormed into the command center at Sauniere's office . Sophie Neveu told the guards outside she'd broken the code . Fache considered radioing the guards in the entresol and telling them to stop Sophie and drag her back up here .
 The red dot was clearly visible on the floor plan overlay, blinking methodically in a room marked TOILETTES PUBLIQUES . Langdon felt light-headed as he trudged toward the end of the Grand Gallery . Sophie's phone message played over and over in his mind .
 Langdon heard Sophie Neveu's phone message from the DCPJ cryptographer . Do not react to this message. Just listen calmly. You are in danger right now. Follow my directions very closely . Langdon had decided to use the rest room at the end of the Grand Gallery .
 Sophie stood before him now, still catching her breath after doubling back to the rest room . Langdon was surprised to see that her strong air actually radiated from unexpectedly soft features . Only her gaze was sharp, and the juxtaposition conjured images of a multilayered Renoir portrait .
 Langdon had been called to the Louvre tonight not as a symbologist but rather as a suspect . He was the unwitting target of one of DCPJ's favorite interrogation methods . Langdon reached his hand into his tweed jacket's left pocket — one he never used .
 It was a metallic, button-shaped disk, about the size of a watch battery . "GPS tracking dot," Sophie said . "Continuously transmits its location to a Global Positioning System satellite that DCPJ can monitor" Langdon flashed back to the hotel room... his quick shower, getting dressed, and getting dressed .
 Langdon had no idea how to respond . "They tagged you with GPS because they thought you might run," Sophie said . "In fact, they hoped you would run; it would make their case stronger" Langdon stalked toward the trash receptacle to dispose of the tracking dot . "Fache feels otherwise." Sophie pried the metallic disk from Langdon' s hand and slid it back into the pocket of his tweed coat .
 Langdon could only stare . Sophie produced a computer printout of a photo from her sweater pocket and began unfolding it . Langdon knew the soluble ink of a watermark stylus could easily be wiped away . "The last line of the message," Sophie said, "was something Fache did not want you to know"
 The final line hit Langdon like a kick in the gut . Langdon felt as if the floor were tilting beneath his feet . "Now do you understand why Fache ordered you here tonight, and  why you are his primary suspect?" Sophie asked .
 The only thing Langdon understood at the moment was why Fache had looked so smug when Langdon suggested Sauniere would have accused his killer by name . "Fache has yet to uncover a motive, but he has been recording his entire conversation with you tonight in hopes you might reveal one," Sophie explained .
 Langdon's name is written on the floor beside the body, and Sauniere's date book says you were with him at approximately the time of the murder . "This is insanity! Fache has no evidence!" Sophie's eyes widened as if she had no evidence . Langdon suddenly sensed that he needed a lawyer .
 Langdon felt like a caged animal . "Why are you telling me all this?" "Because, Mr. Langdon, I believe you are innocent." Sophie looked away for a moment and then back into his eyes . "And also because it is partially my fault that you're in trouble," she said . "Sauniere wasn't trying to frame you. It was a mistake."
 Sophie Neveu apparently believed the curator had left her a cryptic postscript telling her to find Robert Langdon . "The Vitruvian Man" has always been my favorite Da Vinci sketch, she said flatly . Langdon felt himself losing touch fast .
 Sophie Neveu as a "kept woman" somehow didn't  seem to fit . "We had a falling-out ten years ago," she said . "P.S. is the nickname he called me when I lived with him." "Silly, I know, but it was years ago. When I was a little girl."
 Lieutenant Collet had sensed an atypical intensity in his captain . Fache was fighting the urge to go check on Langdon . Langdon needed to return of his own volition . "We're still seeing small movements inside the men's room, so the GPS dot is obviously still on him," Collet said .
 Usually detached and cool under pressure, Fache tonight seemed emotionally engaged, as if this were somehow a personal matter for him . Fache's zeal for technology had hurt him both professionally and personally. Fache was rumored to have invested his entire savings in the  technology craze a few years back and lost his shirt .
 Fache had yet to inform Langdon that his name had been scrawled on the floor by the victim . The American's reaction to that little bit of evidence would be telling indeed . Fache left his handgun in the car and left his gun in the vehicle .
 Silas had faithfully denied himself all sexual indulgence, even self-administered . He knew he had sacrificed much to follow Opus Dei, but he had received much more in return . A weapon of death has no place in a house of God .
 His service to God today had required the sin of murder, and it was a sacrifice Silas knew he would have to hold silently in his heart for all eternity . The measure of your faith is the measure of the pain you can endure, the Teacher had told him .
 Sophie wondered how long it would take Fache to figure out she had not left the building . She pictured her grandfather's body, naked and spread-eagle on the floor . Jacques Sauniere was a stranger to her now . Their relationship had evaporated in a single instant one March night when she was twenty-two .
 Sophie moved out on her own, taking money she had saved, and getting a small flat with roommates . She vowed never to speak to anyone about what she had seen . Her grandfather Sauniere had never given up on her, sending cards and letters, begging Sophie to meet him so he could explain . Sophie never responded except once — to forbid him ever to call her or try to meet her in public .
 Sophie felt a chill to hear him again after all these years . "Sophie, please listen." He was speaking English to her as he always did when she was a little girl . "I have abided by your wishes for so long... and it pains me to call, but I must speak to you"
 Sophie's parents died when she was four when their car went off a bridge into fast-moving water . Her grandmother and younger brother were also in the car, and Sophie's entire family had been erased in an instant . Sophie suddenly could hear her own heart: My family is dead, Sophie. They are not coming home .
 Sophie wondered if her grandfather had fallen terminally ill and had decided to attempt any ploy he could think of to get Sophie to visit him one last time . As she considered her grandfather's message, only one possibility made sense, and his true intent dawned . Obviously, her grandfather wanted desperately to see her .
 Sophie Neveu's passion and aptitude for cryptography was a product of growing up with Jacques Sauniere — a fanatic himself for codes, crosswords, and puzzles . At the age of 12, Sophie could finish the he Monde crossword without any help . Eventually she turned her passion into a profession by becoming a  codebreaker for the Judicial Police .
 Sophie sensed Langdon had no idea why her grandfather had thrown them together . Langdon's secretary set the meeting and didn't offer any specific reason,  and I didn't ask . Sophie didn't buy it. Her grandfather knew more about pagan iconography than anyone else on earth .
 Langdon's blue eyes now clouded with concern . "No, but considering what just happened..." Sophie nodded . She walked to the small plate-glass window at the far end of the bathroom and gazed out in silence . They were high up — forty feet at the height of the Denon Wing .
 Sophie's grandfather is obviously trying to tell us something, Langdon said . He obviously wanted to help her, she thought, having read the CPJ's workup on their suspect . As a codebreaker, Sophie made her living extracting meaning from seemingly senseless data .
 Sophie needed more time with Langdon, but time was running out . Langdon's eyes went wide. "You want me to run?" Sophie replied . "It's the smartest thing you could do. If you let Fache take you into custody now, you'll spend weeks in a French jail while DCPJ and the U.S. Embassy fight over which courts try your case .
 Sophie Langdon's cell phone in Sophie's sweater pocket suddenly began ringing . "Mr. Langdon," she said hurriedly, "I need to ask you one last question" "I will do that after you're safely inside the U.S. Embassy. Dealing with Fache  from here is too much of a gamble," Sophie said .
 Robert Langdon was about to escape the Louvre, whether he wanted to or not . Sophie needed Langdon for herself, and it was this that left Sophie only one logical conclusion . Sophie decided to get Langdon to the U.S. Embassy . A leap from this height would leave Langdon  with a couple of broken legs .
 Fache had looked distressed ever since talking to the director of Cryptology on the phone . After hanging up, he had marched over to Collet and demanded he get Agent Neveu on the line . Now  he had failed, and Fache was pacing like a caged lion . "Maybe her batteries are dead. Or  her ringer's off."
 Sophie Neveu is the granddaughter of Jacques Sauniere, the grandson of the late Saunierier . She was upset by the photos of the code and left the office without a word . The director said he didn't question her behavior because she was understandably upset .
 Collet could think of only one scenario to explain the troubling developments: Sauniere had written  a numeric code on the floor in hopes Fache would involve cryptographers in the investigation . The bell sounded like it was coming from inside the Grand Gallery . If so, what did the message tell her? And  how did Langdon fit in?
 Collet watched the screen in bewilderment as the blinking dot arrived at the window ledge and then did something utterly unexpected . Collet knew Langdon wouldn't get far. There were no trees or grass on the western end of the Denon Wing to cushion a fall .
 Fache sprints down the Grand Gallery as Collet's radio blared over the distant sound of the alarm . "Jesuf" Collet yelled, "Jesus, I think Langdon has just committed suicide!" Fache heard the words, but they made no sense . Langdon had jumped .
 Collet's walkie-talkie was barely audible now over the alarm . "He's moving! My God, he's alive. Langdon's  moving ! " Fache kept running, cursing the length of the hallway with every step . The alarm was getting louder now .
 Langdon was nowhere to be seen . Fache could not imagine anyone risking a stunt like this . Langdon had no way of knowing what the truck was carrying . What if the truck were carrying steel? Or cement? Or even garbage? It was madness .
 Collet called. "He's turning right on Pont des Saints-Peres!" Sure enough, the Trailor truck that had crossed the bridge was slowing down and making a right  turn . Fache watched the truck disappear around the corner . Langdon ran. Guilty as charged.
 Only fifteen yards from the rest room, Langdon and Sophie stood in the darkness of the Grand Gallery, their backs pressed to one of the large partitions that hid the bathrooms from the gallery . They had barely managed to hide themselves before Fache darted past them, gun drawn, and disappeared into the bathroom . Sophie peered downward into the street, as if measuring the drop .
 Langdon fumbled in his pocket until he found the tiny metallic disk . Sophie retrieved a heavy, cylindrical trash can from under the sinks . She drove the bottom of the can into the center of the window, shattering the glass . Langdon hoped Sophie was not thinking what she seemed to be thinking .
 Sophie and Langdon fled the men's room just as Fache rushed past . With the fire alarm silenced, Langdon could hear the sounds of DCPJ sirens tearing away from the Louvre . Fache had hurried off as well, leaving the Grand Gallery .
 The Church of Saint-Sulpice has the most eccentric history of any building in Paris . Built over the ruins of an ancient temple to the Egyptian goddess Isis, the church possesses an  architectural footprint matching that of Notre Dame to within inches . The attached seminary has a well-documented history of unorthodoxy and was once the  clandestine meeting hall for numerous secret societies .
 Silas was accustomed to people being uncomfortable with his appearance . Unlike Notre Dame with its colorful frescoes, gilded altar-work, and warm wood, Saint- Sulpice was stark and cold, conveying an almost barren quality reminiscent of the ascetic cathedrals of Spain .
 The lack of decor made the interior look even more expansive, and as Silas  gazed up into the soaring ribbed vault of the ceiling, he imagined he was standing beneath the hull of an enormous overturned ship . The brotherhood's ship was about to be capsized forever .
 Silas felt his eyes focus on the altar . "A tour is unnecessary. You have been more than kind. I can  show myself around," he said . "It is no trouble," she said. "After all, I am awake." Silas stopped walking now they had reached the front pew now .
 Silas watched her climb out of sight as he knelt in the front pew, feeling the cilice cut into his leg . "Sleep well, Sister. May the peace of the Lord be with you." "Not at all. Prayer is a solitary joy," she said .
 Langdon felt like he was trying to assemble a jigsaw puzzle in the dark . The symbolism of the clues meshed too perfectly — the pentacle, The Vitruvian Man, Da Vinci, the goddess, and even the Fibonacci sequence .
 Langdon wished he could comprehend the cryptic message, both for Sophie's well-being and for his own . Sophie: "I'm certain his message at the Louvre was his final effort to tell me something important, something he  thought you could help me understand"
 Langdon had once worked on a series of Baconian manuscripts that contained epigraphical ciphers in which certain lines of code were clues as to how to decipher the  other lines . Langdon: "I've been thinking about the numbers all night. I don't see anything. Mathematically, they're arranged at random. Cryptographic gibberish"
 The medieval Italian card game was so replete with hidden heretical symbolism Langdon dedicated an entire chapter in his new manuscript to the Tarot . The Tarot indicator suit for feminine divinity is pentacles, Langdon thought, realizing that if he had been stacking his granddaughter's deck for fun, pentacles was an inside joke .
 Langdon was starting to realize that Sauniere's clues were even more consistent than he had first imagined . Sophie's grandfather used to joke that he was half divine because of the letters in my name . Langdon groaned and then groaned, "I was more interested in the mathematics of it"
 1.618 is the most beautiful number in the universe, Langdon says . Langdon: "One-point-six-one-eight, is a very important number in art. Who can tell me why?" "Because it's so pretty?" Langdon asks .
 Langdon: The number PHI was derived from the Fibonacci sequence . He said it was famous because the quotients of adjacent terms possessed the astonishing property of approaching the number 1.618 — PHI! Despite its seemingly mystical mathematical origins, Langdon explained, the truly mind-boggling aspect of PHI was its role as a fundamental building block in nature . "PHI's ubiquity in nature," Langdon said, killing the lights .
 Langdon projected slide of a spiral seashell on slide of nautilus . "NO WAY!" Langdon said . "The Divine Proportion. One-point-six-one-eight to one." The girl gaped . "I'm a bio major and I've never seen this DivineProportion in nature."
 Langdon: "Nobody understood better than Da Vinci the divine structure of the human body" The Vitruvian Man is named for Marcus Vitruvius, the brilliant Roman architect who praised the Divine Proportion in his text De ˚re-apologeticArchitectura .
 Langdon was the  first to show that the human body is literally made of building blocks whose proportional ratios  always equal PHI . "Next time you're in the shower, take a tape measure," Langdon challenged . "Not just you insecure jocks, Langdon prompted, "All of you. Try it. Measure the  distance from the tip of your head to the floor .
 When the ancients discovered PHI, they were certain they had stumbled across God's building  for the world, and they worshipped Nature because of that . Even to this day there exist pagan, Mother Earth-revering religions . Many of us celebrate nature the way the pagans did, and don't even know it .
 Langdon unveiled PHI in the architectural dimensions of the Greek Parthenon, the pyramids of Egypt, and even the United Nations Building in New York . PHI appeared in the organizational structures of Mozart's sonatas, Beethoven's Fifth ymphony, as well as the works of Bartok, Debussy, and Schubert .
 Langdon: "This symbol is one of the most powerful images you will see this term" He drew five intersecting lines that formed a five-pointed star . Langdon gave the kid a proud nod . "Nice job. Can anyone tell me why that might be?"
 The Last Supper is one of the most astonishing tributes to the sacred feminine you will ever see." Langdon winked. "There are symbols hidden in places you would never imagine," he said . "Come on," Sophie whispered. "What's wrong? We're almost there."
 Robert Langdon suddenly and unexpectedly deciphered Sauniere's code . "Oh, lame saint! It's the simplest kind of code!" Langdon said . Sophie had no idea what he was talking about . She plunged her hand into her pocket and pulled out the printout .
 Langdon: "The Fibonacci sequence is a clue," Langdon says . "You think this message is... une anagramme?" Sophie needed only an instant to process Langdon's implication . The mystical teachings of the Kabbala drew heavily on anagrams .
 Langdon: "Your grandfather's meaning was right  in front of us all along, and he left us more than enough clues to see it. " Without another word, Langdon pulled a pen from his jacket pocket and rearranged the letters in  each line . The Romans referred to the study of anagrams as ars magna — "the great art"
 Sophie's expertise in complex cryptanalysis had caused her to overlook simplistic  word games, and yet she knew she should have seen it . When she was young, often her grandfather would use anagram games to hone her English spelling . Sophie had spent three days with an English dictionary until she found them all .
 Sophie Langdon's grandfather used one of his anagrams to communicate with the Mona Lisa as a code . Her grandfather's voice had called out from beyond with chilling precision . The idea  seemed plausible, but she could think of only one possibility: Leonardo da Vinci .
 Sophie knew she should usher Langdon Langdon from the museum immediately, but instinct urged her to the contrary . The famous painting hung in the Salle des Etats — a private viewing chamber accessible only from the Grand Gallery . The doors  opened into the chamber were situated only twenty meters from where her grandfather had  been found dead .
 Sophie wanted to go home, despite her grandfather's excitement . She had seen pictures of the Mona Lisa in books and didn't like it at all . "C'est ennuyeux, " Sophie grumbled. "French at school. English at home."
 Sophie hated her red hair and freckles, and she was bigger than all  the boys in her class . "She's too little," her grandfather said . "You're little and you're beautiful," she thought . "Not many people get a chance to visit her alone."
 Her face is... brumeux. " "Foggy," her grandfather tutored Sophie . "That's called the sfumato style of painting," he told her . "Someday I'll tell you all about it." Sophie stamped her foot. "I told you I don't like secrets!"
 Sophie felt guilty turning Langdon into a fugitive only to abandon him, but she saw no other option . "I think my grandfather may have left me a message at the Mona Lisa — some kind of clue as to who killed him. Or why I'm in danger." Langdon nodded, eyeing the keys in his hand. "I have to go see."
 Sophie's grandfather had written a confidential transmission directly to her . He had written it in code, included her secret initials, and told her to find Robert Langdon . Langdon seemed hesitant, as if his own academic curiosity were threatening to override sound judgment and drag him back into Fache's hands . Sophie gave him a grateful smile . "I'll see you at the embassy, Mr. Langdon."
 Sophie detected the faint hint of a lopsided grin growing across Langdon's face, and she felt herself smile back . "Good luck, Robert," Sophie said . Langdon wondered if at any moment he might awake with a start in his bed in Cambridge .
 Sauniere had written Langdon's name on the floor, commanding Sophie to find him . Langdon wondered what Sophie would find at the Mona Lisa... if anything . She seemed certain her grandfather meant  she to visit the famous painting one more time .
 Langdon was suddenly feeling more certain about this, and yet the conclusion left an obvious lapse in the logic of Sauniere's actions . Langdon's thoughts raced as he tried to assemble the implications of what this all meant . He fixated on two letters: P.S. Find Robert Langdon.
 Saint-Sulpice was built in the shape of a giant Roman cross . Langdon broke into a sprint back toward the stairs . Embedded in the gray granite floor, a thin polished strip of brass glistened in the stone .
 The Rose Line was a pagan astronomical device like a sundial . Tourists, scientists,  historians, and pagans from around the world came to Saint-Sulpice to gaze upon this famous line . Silas traced the path of the line as it made its way across the floor from right to left .
 Silas thought the Priory keystone was hidden inside Saint-Sulpice . But when Silas told the Teacher that the brothers had all given him a precise location, with relation to a brass line . The Teacher quickly told Silas of an architectural oddity — a strip of brass that  segmented the sanctuary on a perfect north-south axis .
 The Compass Rose indicated North, East, South, and West . Originally known as the Wind Rose, it denoted the directions of the thirty-two winds . The Rose was associated with maps and guiding souls in the proper direction . To this day, the fundamental navigational tool was still known as a Compass Rose, its northernmost direction still marked by an arrowhead .
 The zero longitude of the entire world had passed directly through Paris, and through the Church of Saint-Sulpice . The Rose Line was the line from which all other longitudes on earth would be measured . Today that line is in Greenwich, England .
 Silas Aringarosa sat on his knees in a pew and listened to make sure no one was there . For a moment, he thought he heard a rustling in the choir balcony . He faced the altar and genuflected three times . Then he turned left and followed the brass line due north .
 Only five months ago, Aringarosa had feared for the future of the Faith . If all went as planned tonight in Paris, he would soon be in possession of something that would make him the most powerful man in Christendom . The remorse that gripped her was powerful and sudden, a deep sadness laced with guilt .
 The Salle des Etats was one of this museum's rare culs-de-sac — a dead end and the only  room off the middle of the Grand Gallery . Even before Sophie entered, she knew she was missing something . She reached for the huge wooden doors, and pushed them open .
 Sophie hurried down to the well-lit crime scene . Unable to look at her grandfather, she focused solely on the PTS tools . Finding a small ultraviolet penlight, she slipped it into the pocket of her sweater and hurried back up the hallway .
 Sophie had indeed seen the initials P.S. once before, in a kind of monogram . Langdon caught his breath as his blue eyes held her firmly . Sophie pulled him into the Salle des Etats and closed  the enormous twin doors silently .
 Sophie mustered the courage to sneak into her grandfather's bedroom . The room was off-limits to her, but her grandfather was downstairs asleep on the couch . Sophie peered on the shelves behind his closet, then looked under the bed . She found nothing in the entire house .
 Sophie carefully pulled the chain from her grandfather's drawer . To her surprise, on the end was a brilliant gold ipientkey . It looked like no key she had ever seen . Embossed in the middle of the cross was a strange symbol — two letters intertwined with some kind of flowery design .
 Sophie received no birthday present from her grandfather . "I'm sorry, Grand-pere. I really am." Sophie retrieved the key . "We'll talk about this some other time. Right now, the garden needs to be weeded."
 Sophie was given a red bicycle by her grandfather for Christmas morning . She found a note card lying on her pillow with a simple riddle written on it . Sophie solved the riddle and raced to the next card, solving another riddle . She then raced to her own bedroom to find the red bicycle .
 Grandfathers and granddaughters always forgive each other . "I'm really sorry about the key," Sophie said, hugging him . "It opens a box," he finally said. "Where I keep many secrets." Sophie pouted. "I hate secrets!" "I know, sweetie. You're forgiven. I can't possibly stay mad at you."
 Sophie couldn't believe her ears when her grandfather made a deal with her . "If you can keep my key a secret, and never talk about it ever again, then someday I will give it to you" Sophie scowled. "No it doesn't. My name isn't P.S. It has your name on it."
 Sophie sensed her grandfather's voice whispering in the corridors of the museum . She knew she had failed him in forgiveness, and she wondered if she could break his trust again . "I'm not a princess!" He winked. "You are to me." From that day on they never again spoke of the key .
 Sophie felt a knot tighten in her stomach . Langdon exhaled and lowered his voice . Sophie was praying Langdon was not going to tell her that he himself was a member of the Prieure de Sion . "I've written about this group," he said, his voice tremulous with excitement .
 Langdon had never heard of the Priory's membership of some of history's most cultured individuals: men like Botticelli, Sir Isaac Newton, Victor Hugo . He paused, his voice brimming with academic zeal, "And, Leonardo da Vinci." Sophie stared. "Da Vinci was in a secret society?"
 Despite the total conviction in Langdon's eyes, Sophie's gut reaction was one of stark disbelief . She felt her mind reeling back ten years — to the night she had mistakenly surprised her grandfather and witnessed what she still could not accept . The identities of living Priory members are kept extremely secret .
 Langdon turned his head and gazed through the reddish haze  toward the Mona Lisa . Langdon knelt at the base of the structure, not out of reverence, but out of necessity . A few miles away, on the riverbank beyond Les Invalides, the bewildered driver of a twin-bed  trailor truck stood at gunpoint and watched as the captain of the Judicial Police heaved a bar of soap out into the turgid waters of the Se
 The keystone is hidden beneath the Rose Line at the base of the Sulpice obelisk . The mysterious Opus Dei monk had come to Saint-Sulpice for another purpose . Sister Sandrine Bieil was more than the keeper of this church .
 The U.S. Embassy in Paris is a compact complex on Avenue Gabriel, just north of the Champs-Elysees . The embassy's night operator was reading Time magazine's International Edition when the sound of the phone interrupted . The caller spoke English accented with French, his tone sounded gruff and official .
 Bezu Fache felt dumbstruck as he paced the banks of the Seine . He was certain he had seen  Langdon dial a local number, enter a three-digit code, and then listen to a recording . But if Langdon didn't phone the embassy, then who the hell did he call? Fache realized the answers were in the palm of his hand .
 The Mona Lisa was a mere thirty-one inches by twenty-one  inches . She hung on the northwest wall of the Salle des Etats behind a two-inch-thick pane of protective Plexiglas . Fache's blood was boiling as he typed the numbers 4... 5... 4 .
 The Mona Lisa had been stolen twice, most recently in 1911, when she disappeared from the Louvre's  "satte impenetrable" — Le Salon Carre . Two years later, the painting was discovered hidden in a trunk in a Florence hotel room .
 He strained to see beyond the cocoon of purplish colored light emanating from the black light in Sophie's hand . Behind it, he knew, in the confines of her own private cell, hung the most celebrated painting in the world . The Mona Lisa was famous because Leonardo da Vinci claimed she was his finest accomplishment .
 Many art historians suspected Da Vinci's reverence for the Mona Lisa had nothing to do with its artistic mastery . The painting's well-documented collage of double entendres and playful allusions had been revealed in most art history tomes . Yet, incredibly, the public at large still considered her  mystery a great mystery .
 Langdon's jail seminar was part of a Harvard outreach program attempting to bring education into the prison system . "Da Vinci painted the horizon line on the left significantly lower than the  right," Langdon said . "He screwed it up?" one of the inmates asked .
 "Da Vinci was a big  fan of feminine principles, he made Mona Lisa look more majestic from the left than the right" Langdon: "He believed that a  human soul could not be enlightened unless it had both male and female elements"
 Computerized analysis of the Mona Lisa and Da Vinci's self-portraits confirms some startling points of congruency in their faces . Langdon: "It carries a subtle message of androgyny. It is a fusing of both"
 Langdon was not familiar with the brand name, but he was glad to hear the prophylactic phthalactic manufacturers had gotten their hieroglyphs right . "Well done. Amon is indeed represented as a man with a ram's head, and his promiscuity and curved horns are related to our modern sexual slang                 'horny'
 "My grandfather was here," Sophie said, dropping suddenly to her knees, now only ten feet from the Mona Lisa . She pointed the black light tentatively to a spot on the parquet floor . At first Langdon saw nothing. Then, as he knelt beside her, he saw a tiny droplet of dried liquid .
 At that moment, Langdon saw a faint purple glimmer on the protective glass before the Mona Lisa . Reaching down, he took Sophie's wrist and slowly moved the light up to the painting itself . On the glass, six words glowed in purple, scrawled directly across the face .
 Sophie Neveu was flabbergasted by Sophie's bravado . She's still inside the building? "Handle it," Captain Fache ordered . "I want Langdon and Nevesu at gunpoint by the time I get back," he says .
 Fache decided not to take any chances . He ordered half of his men back to the Louvre perimeter . The other half he sent to guard the only location in Paris where Robert Langdon could find safe harbor . Langdon had proven an elusive quarry tonight .
 The Priory's tradition of perpetuating goddess worship is based on a belief that powerful men in the early Christian church 'conned' the world by propagating lies that tipped the scales in favor of the masculine . Sophie remained silent, staring at the words . Langdon understood her meaning: She thinks this is another code .
 The Catholic Inquisition published the book that arguably could be called the most blood-soaked publication in human history . Malleus Maleficarum — or The Witches' Hammer — indoctrinated the  world to "the dangers of freethinking women" and instructed the clergy how to locate, torture, and destroy them .
 During three hundred years of witch hunts, the Church burned at the stake an astounding five million women . Midwives also were killed for their heretical practice of using medical knowledge to ease the pain of childbirth . The once hallowed act of Hieros Gamos — the natural sexual union between man and woman — had been recast as a shameful act .
 Holy men who once required sexual union with their female counterparts to commune with God now feared  their natural sexual urges as the work of the devil . Not even the feminine association with the left-hand side could escape the Church's defamation . In France and Italy, the words for "left" — gauche and sinistra — came to have deeply negative tones .
 The Priory of Sion believed that it was this obliteration of the sacred feminine in modern life that had caused what the Hopi Native Americans called koyanisquatsi — "life out of balance" Langdon heard the approaching footsteps out in the hallway . Sophie extinguished the black light and seemed to evaporate before Langdon's eyes .
 Langdon felt his arms raise instinctively for the ceiling . "Couchez-vous!" the guard commanded. "Lie down!" Langdon was face first on the floor in a matter of seconds . The guard hurried over and kicked his legs apart, spreading Langdon out .
 Silas untied his cloak and slipped it off his body, then wrapped it around the end of the iron rod . He drove the iron pole into the center of the floor tile, a muffled thud, and a crack followed by a dull thud .
 Silas had expected the keystone to be a map, or a complex series of directions, perhaps even encoded . The keystone bore the simple words Job 38:11  a Bible verse ? Silas was stunned with the devilish simplicity .
 Silas knew the Book of Job told the story of a man whose faith in God survived repeated tests . The brotherhood stopped at nothing to mock the righteous! Job. Chapter thirty-eight . Verse eleven. Verse eleven . He thought, barely able to contain his excitement, he gazed down the shimmering Rose Line .
 Silas laid the stone tablet on the altar and turned his eager hands to the leather Bible . The bloody monk was now quietly donning his cloak again, clutching his prize as he moved toward the altar, toward the Bible . Opus Dei is  searching for the keystone, Sister Sandrine knew .
 His long white fingers were sweating now as he turned the pages . Finding verse number eleven, Silas read the text only seven words . Confused, he read it again, sensing something had gone terribly wrong . The verse simply read:  HITHERTO SHALT THOU COME THOUCOME, but NO FURTHER .
 Grouard yanked his walkie-talkie off his belt and attempted to radio for backup . The additional electronic security in this chamber always wrought havoc with the guards'  communications . He was still aiming his weapon at Langdon, but he spied something that made him back to the entrance .
 Grouard demanded, feeling his adrenaline spike for a second time in the last thirty seconds . He suddenly didn't know where to aim his gun or what direction to move . "PTS," the woman replied calmly, still scanning the floor with her light . "C'est mot," the voice responded in calm French .
 Warden Grouard had heard the rumors of the painful falling-out between Sauniere and his granddaughter . Sophie Neveu felt a cold sweat breaking across her forehead . Langdon was still  spread-eagle on the floor . The woman called: "And Robert Langdon did not kill my grandfather."
 Sophie scanned the area around one masterpiece in particular — another Da Vinci . But the UV light revealed nothing out of the ordinary . There must be something here! Sophie felt totally certain she had deciphered her grandfather's intentions correctly . The masterpiece she was examining was a five-foot-tall canvas .
 Sophie pictured the message scrawled on the protective glass of the Mona Lisa . The painting before her had no protective glass on which to write a message . Sophie knew her grandfather would never have defaced this masterpiece by writing on the painting itself .
 Sophie's eyes locked on an incongruous glint of lustrous metal lodged near the bottom edge of the wooden armature . The object was small, partially wedged in the slit where the canvas met the frame . A shimmering gold chain dangled off it was affixed to a familiar gold key . Sophie realized that her grandfather, even in death, had kept his promise .
 Sophie snatched the key from behind the painting and slipped it deep in her pocket along with the UV penlight . The guard was backing toward the entrance, still aiming  the gun firmly at Langdon . "Au secours!" he shouted again into his radio .
 Sophie realized that Leonardo da Vinci, for the second time tonight, was there to help . Grouard's first thought was to wonder why the painting's trip wires hadn't set off alarms, but of course the artwork cable sensors had yet to be reset tonight . At five feet tall, the canvas almost entirely hid her body .
 Grouard screamed, frozen in horror as he watched the priceless Da Vinci stretching . The canvas  was only fabric, but it was utterly impenetrable — a six-million-dollar piece of body armor . "Set down your gun and radio," the woman said in calm French, "or I'll put my knee through this painting"
 Sophie's choice in art seemed eerily pertinent to tonight's adventure . Langdon wondered if Sophie had any idea how valuable a painting  she had almost ruined . The Da ipientVinci was notorious among art historians for its plethora of hidden pagan symbolism .
 Sister Sandrine's private phone numbers stashed beneath her bed were for use on only one condition . She was not supposed to call the fourth number unless the first three could not be reached . The outgoing message offered no name but simply asked the caller to leave a message . "The floor panel has been broken!" she pleaded .
 If identity of one brother was compromised, he could tell a lie that would start in motion a mechanism to warn the others . "Please answer," she whispered in fear . "Hang up the phone," a deep voice said from the doorway . "They are dead," the monk said. "All four of them. And they have played me for a fool."
 "You are a sister of the Church, and yet  you serve them?" "Jesus had but one true message," Sister Sandrine said defiantly . "I cannot see that message in Opus Dei." A sudden explosion of rage erupted behind the monk's eyes. He lunged, lashing out with the candle . All four are dead .
 Langdon had barely thrown himself into the passenger seat before Sophie gunned the SmartCar up and over a curb onto a gravel divider . Langdon gripped the dash as the car shot out across a sidewalk and bounced back down over into the small rotary at Carrousel du Louvre .
 Sophie decided on the more conventional route, jamming the wheel hard to the  right, circling properly until she exited, cut left, and swung into the northbound lane, accelerating . The two-tone police sirens blared louder behind them, and Langdon could see the lights now in his side view mirror .
 Sophie had said her grandfather left her something behind the painting . Madonna of the Rocks was yet another fitting link in the chain of interconnected symbolism . The embassy was only about a mile away, and Langdon settled into his seat . Sophie's quick thinking had been impressive .
 Leonardo da Vinci's original commission for Madonna of the Rocks had come from an organization known  as the Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception . The painting showed a blue-robed Virgin Mary sitting with her arm around an infant child, presumably Baby Jesus .
 Instead of usual Jesus-blessing-John scenario, it was baby John who  was blessing Jesus... and Jesus was submitting to his authority . Mary was  holding one hand high above the head of infant John and making a decidedly threatening gesture . Uriel was making a cutting  gesture with his hand — as if slicing the neck of the invisible head .
 Langdon said, "The painting. What was behind it?" Sophie gave a curt nod . "Embossed with a fleur-de-lis and the initials P.S." Langdon couldn't believe his ears . "I'll show you once we're safely inside the embassy," Sophie said .
 Sophie could not begin to imagine what a key like this opened, but she sensed Robert would be able to tell her . The key's complex series of laser-burned pockmarks was examined by an electric eye . Sophie knew of no churches that used laser-tooled varying matrix keys .
 Sophie returned from graduate school in Britain for spring break a few days early . When she arrived at their Paris home, however, her grandfather was not there . He seldom worked on weekends, so she realized it was the weekend . Jacques Sauniere despised city driving and owned a car for one destination only — his vacation chateau .
 Sophie, after months in the congestion of London, was eager for the smells of nature and to start her vacation right away . Borrowing a friend's car, Sophie drove north, winding into the deserted moon-swept hills near Creully . The access road was over a mile long, and she was halfway down it before she could start to see the house through the trees .
 Sophie was away at school when Jacques Sauniere was hosting a party while she was away . The front door was locked, and the back door was also locked . Sophie hurried to the side of the house and clambered up on a woodpile, pressing her face to the living room window .
 Sophie ran to the woodshed and got the spare key her grandfather kept hidden under the kindling box . The control panel for the security system started blinking red — a warning that the entrant had ten seconds to type the proper code before the security alarms went off . Sophie quickly typed the code and deactivated the system .
 Sophie's grandfather's favorite antique, a sprawling Aubusson tapestry, hung on the east wall beside the fireplace, but tonight it had been pulled aside on its brass brass rod, exposing the wall behind it . The space behind this wall is hollow! Feeling around the edge of the panels, Sophie found a recessed fingerhold .
 Sophie slipped through the door and found herself on a rough-hewn stone staircase . She'd been coming to this house since she was a child and yet had no idea this staircase even existed . The room was a grotto — a coarse chamber that appeared to have been hollowed from the granite of the hillside .
 Everyone in the circle rocked back and forth and chanted in reverence to something on the floor... something Sophie could not see . The chanting grew steady again. The participants took a step inward and knelt. In that instant, Sophie could finally see what they all were witnessing . Even as she staggered back in horror, she felt the image searing itself into her memory forever .
 Sophie's life shattered by disillusionment and betrayal, she packed her belongings and  left a note . "Sophie! Langdon's voice intruded. "Stop! Stop!" Sophie slammed on the brakes, skidding to a halt . A hundred yards ahead, the intersection was blocked by a couple of DCPJ police cars, parked askew .
 Sophie's SmartCar tore through the diplomatic quarter, weaving past embassies and consulates . Langdon sat white-knuckled in the passenger seat, twisted backward, scanning behind them for any signs of the police . He suddenly wished he had not decided to run. You didn't, he reminded himself .
 Sophie was fishing in her sweater pocket for a small metal object . Langdon had never seen anything like it . The shaft was also pockmarked with hundreds of tiny hexagons that appeared to be finely tooled and scattered at random . "It's a laser-cut key," Sophie told him .
 When Langdon turned the key, he felt his jaw drop . There, intricately embossed on the center of  the cross, was a stylized fleur-de-lis with the initials P.S. The Priory existed for the sole purpose of protecting a secret of incredible power .
 The head of this key was not the traditional long-stemmed Christian cross but rather was a square cross with four arms of equal length . This kind of cross carried none of the Christian connotations associated with the longer- stemmed Latin Cross, originated by Romans as a torture device . Langdon remained silent as he turned the cruciform in his hand, examining it .
 The square configurations make them impractical for use in crucifixion, and  their balanced vertical and horizontal elements convey a natural union of male and female, making  them symbolically consistent with Priory philosophy . Langdon wondered again if he might have been better off taking his chances letting Fache arrest him at the Louvre .
 Langdon asked Sophie to explain the situation and have the embassy send someone to meet us somewhere . "Robert, you're dreaming. Sending someone to retrieve us would be considered aiding a fugitive of the French government . "How much cash do you have? Langdon checked his wallet . "A hundred dollars. A few euro. Why?" "Of course."
 Sophie gunned the SmartCar into France's largest rotary, a nine-lane behemoth . "We won't last another five minutes if we stay in this car," Sophie said . Langdon mused, "What are you going to do?" Sophie's eyes were on the rearview mirror again .
 Langdon had never owned any other watch . Disney animations had been his first introduction to the magic of form and color . Mickey served as Langdon's daily reminder to stay young at heart . At the moment, his arms were skewed at an awkward angle, indicating an equally awkward hour .
 Sophie pulled her SmartCar in behind a line of taxis and parked in a red zone despite plenty of  legal parking across the street . She hurried to the window of the taxi in front of them and began speaking to the driver . Langdon got out of the SmartCar and saw Sophie hand the taxi driver a big wad of cash .
 Bishop Aringarosa recalled a day when all Vatican transports were big luxury cars that sported grille-plate medallions and flags emblazoned with the seal of the Holy See . Vatican cars were now less ostentatious and almost always unmarked .
 Vatican claimed this was to cut costs to better serve dioceses, but Aringarosa suspected it was more of a security measure . Vatican phoned to request Aringaosa's immediate presence in Rome five months ago . The Holy See worked hard to retain a  veil of mystery, even for its highest clergy .
 The Vatican invited Aringarosa to a photo opportunity to piggyback on Opus Dei's recent success in New York City . Architectural Digest had called the building "a shining beacon of Catholicism sublimely integrated with the modern landscape" The Vatican seemed to be drawn to anything and everything that includes the word "modern"
 The Pope has wasted no  time flexing all the muscle associated with the highest office in Christendom . Drawing on an  unsettling tide of liberal support within the College of Cardinals, the Pope was now declaring his papal mission to be "rejuvenation of Vatican doctrine and updating Catholicism into the third century"
 The Pope's summer residence is Castel Gandolfo, a sixteenth-century citadel that housed the Vatican Observatory . Aringarosa had never been there, nor had he ever desired to see it . People need structure and direction from the Church, he said, not coddling and indulgence .
 Castel Gandolfo is located in the valley where the Curiazi and Orazi clans fought long before the founding of Rome . The castle is an impressive example of tiered, defensive architecture, echoing the potency of this dramatic cliffside setting .
 The Vatican has built two huge aluminum telescope domes atop the roof, leaving the building looking like a proud warrior wearing a couple of party hats . It amazed him to think the Vatican was failing at every turn to provide coherent, stringent guidelines for spiritual growth and yet still found time to give astrophysics lectures to tourists .
 The Vatican's Astronomy Library is rumored to contain more than twenty-five thousand volumes, including rare works of Copernicus, Galileo, Kepler, Newton, Newton and Secchi . The Vatican has gone mad. Like a lazy parent who found it easier to acquiesce to the whims of a spoiled child than to stand firm and teach values .
 Bishop Aringarosa would never have imagined the shocking news he was  about to receive inside, or the deadly chain of events it would put into motion . It was not until an hour later, as he staggered from the meeting, that the devastating implications settled in .
 The inside of Gare Saint-Lazare looked like every other train station in Europe . Sophie raised her eyes to the enormous departure board overhead . Langdon checked his watch at 2:59 A.M. The train left in seven minutes and they didn't even have tickets yet .
 Sophie guided Langdon toward the ticket window and said, "Buy us two tickets with your credit  meticulouslycard" Langdon decided to stop trying to keep ahead of Sophie Neveu . They hurried through a side lobby, past an all-night cafe, and finally out a side door onto a quiet street on the west side of the station .
 Langdon examined the cruciform key again, holding it to the window, bringing it close to his eyes to find any markings on it that might indicate where the key had been made . Langdon and Sophie ducked down as the sirens faded . Sophie took out their newly purchased train tickets and tore them up .
 Langdon held the key to his nose and sniffed it to his wife . "It smells like somebody polished it with a cleaner," she said . Langdon frowned, peering at the blunt end of the triangular shaft . "I think this key was cleaned recently," he said .
 Langdon looked at the smooth surface on the broad arm of the cross . It seemed to shimmer in places... like it was wet . Langdon turned to her, "Do you still have the black light?" Sophie reached in her pocket and produced the UV penlight . There was writing there in penmanship that was hurried but legible .
 Sophie looked back at the key and wondered what they would possibly find at 24 Rue Haxo . She asked him to take them there immediately . "Fastest route is through Bois de Boulogne," the driver told her in French . "Is that okay?" Sophie frowned. "Oui."
 Lieutenant Collet loped toward them from the direction of the command post . "They located Agent Neveu's car," Fache said . "Probably a decoy." Fache exhaled, formulating a plan. "Okay, alert the next station, have the train stopped and searched, just in case."
 Interpol broadcast-faxed photos of Langdon and Sophie to travel authorities, hotels, and banks . Fugitives were predictable the first hour after escape . Usually, fugitives panicked on the street and did something stupid. Stole a car. Robbed a store. Used a bank card in desperation .
 Fache felt rigid as he stood in the alcove. He told himself to relax. Even a trained field agent would be lucky to withstand the pressure that Interpol was about to apply . A female cryptologist and a schoolteacher? They wouldn't last till dawn.
 The heavily forested park known as the Bois de Boulogne was called many things, but the Parisian  cognitiveoscenti knew it as "the Garden of Earthly Delights" Langdon was having trouble concentrating as a scattering of the park's nocturnal residents were already flaunting their wares in the shadows .
 The Priory of Sion was founded in Jerusalem in 1099 by a French king named Godefroi de Bouillon . The brotherhood's history spanned more than a millennium... an astonishing chronicle of secrets, blackmail, betrayal, and even brutal torture at the hands of an angry Pope .
 "King Godefroi was allegedly the possessor of a powerful secret — a secret that had been in his family since the time of Christ. Fearing his secret might be lost when he died, he founded a secret brotherhood — the Priory of Sion . The Priory learned of a stash of  hidden documents buried beneath the ruins of Herod's temple, which had been built atop the earlier ruins of Solomon's Temple .
 Langdon had lectured often enough on the Knights Templar to know that almost everyone on earth had heard of them . For academics, the Templars' history was a precarious world where fact, lore, and misinformation had become so intertwined that extracting a pristine truth was almost impossible .
 Langdon explains how the Knights were in the Holy Land during the Second Crusade and told King Baldwin II that they were there to protect Christian pilgrims on the roadways . Langdon: "The Knights discovered something down there in the ruins... something that made them wealthy and powerful beyond anyone's wildest imagination"
 The Knights believed the documents the Priory sought were buried deep under the ruins of the temple . For almost a decade, the nine Knights lived in the ruins, excavating in total secrecy through solid rock . Langdon said the Knights had finally found what they had been searching for .
 Pope Innocent II issued unprecedented papal bull granting Knights Templar limitless power . Knights Templar expanded at a staggering rate, amassing vast estates in over a dozen countries . They began extending credit to bankrupt royals and charging interest in return, thereby broadening their wealth and influence .
 Pope Clement V devised an ingeniously planned sting operation to quash the Templars and seize their secrets . Pope Clement issued secret sealed orders to be opened simultaneously by his soldiers on Friday, October 13 of 1307 . The documents were unsealed and their appalling contents revealed .
 Friday the thirteenth was considered  unlucky . The Knights Templar were captured, tortured mercilessly, and finally burned at the stake as heretics . Clement's Machiavellian operation came off with clockwork precision . Echoes of the tragedy still resonated in modern culture .
 Langdon: "For a thousand years, legends of this secret have been passed on. The entire collection of documents, its power, and the secret it reveals have become known by a single  name — Sangreal" Sophie: "Where did the documents go?" Langdon shrugged. "That mystery's answer is known only to the Priory of Sion"
 Langdon: Sangreal is an ancient word, but has evolved into a modern term . Langdon says the Priory guards the proof, and is purportedly awaiting the right moment in history to reveal the truth . Sophie: "I've never heard of it." "Sure you have." Langdon smiled .
 Sangreal is a collection of documents that reveals some dark secret, Langdon says . Sangreal documents are only half of the Holy Grail treasure, he says . The documents gave the Knights Templar so much power  because the pages revealed the true nature of the Grail . Langdon's claim still made no sense to Sophie .
 Langdon: "According to the Priory of Sion, the Holy Grail is not a cup at all" Sophie sensed in Langdon's patient smile that he empathized with her confusion . Langdon had known this question was coming, and yet he felt uncertain exactly how to tell her .
 Langdon's own editor was stunned when Langdon told Jonas Faukman a manuscript he was working on . "You can't be serious," he said, "Serious enough to have spent a year researching it" Langdon: Sophie would be left with a vacant air of bewilderment .
 Faukman: "Where could you possibly find enough credible evidence to support a theory like this?" Langdon: "You're a Harvard historian, for God's sake, not a pop schlockmeister looking for a quick buck." Langdon's theory has been around for a long time, he says .
 The Holy Grail is arguably the most sought-after treasure in human history, Langdon says . The Grail has spawned legends, wars, and lifelong quests . The iconographic evidence I'm finding to support the theory is, well,  staggeringly persuasive."
 Sophie's shouts cut the air inside the taxi . Langdon jumped as Sophie leaned forward over the seat and yelled at the taxi driver . Sophie turned now and plunged her hand into the pocket of Langdon's tweed jacket . She yanked out the pistol, swung it around, and was  pressing it to the back of the driver's head .
 The driver dropped his radio, raising his one  free hand overhead . Sophie ordered the driver to stop the car and put it in park . Langdon choked, "Sophie!" he choked . Sophie rolled down her window and aimed the gun outside at the bewildered cabbie .
 Langdon groped for the car's controls and hesitated . "Robert," Sophie said from the back seat, "I trust you've seen enough of our magic forest?" He nodded. "Good. Drive us out of here." Sophie yelled . Langdon depressed the clutch and jostled the stick into what he hoped was first gear .
 Silas did not have the strength to call the Teacher . Not only had Silas killed the only four people . who knew where the keystone was hidden, he had killed a nun inside Saint-Sulpice . She was  working against God! She scorned the work of Opus Dei!
 Silas had planned to hide within Opus Dei when his task here was complete . Silas could imagine no more blissful existence than a life of meditation and prayer . Unfortunately, a prominent man like Bishop Aringarosa could not disappear so easily .
 Silas learned to see himself in a new light . Noah saved all of life on the planet. You are destined for great things, Silas . The Lord has freed you for a reason. The Lord needs your help to do His work."
 When Langdon reached the exit of the park, he swallowed his machismo and jammed on the brakes . Sophie looked relieved as she jumped behind the wheel . Langdon pulled the heavy key from his pocket again, feeling the weight in his palm .
 The equal-armed cruciform was symbolic of balance and harmony but also of the Knights Templar . Langdon felt his imagination starting to run wild as he fantasized about what they might find . The Grail was believed to be buried in a hidden chamber beneath one of the many Templar churches, where it had been hidden since at least 1500 .
 The last Grail "sighting" had been in 1447 when eyewitnesses described a fire that had almost engulfed the documents . After that, nobody claimed to see the Grail ever again . All that remained were occasional whisperings that it was hidden in Great Britain, the land of King Arthur .
 The Mona Lisa may have been painted wearing a lapis  lazuli pendant of Isis, but Langdon had never seen any evidence of the pendant . Still, Grail aficionados still discussed it ad nauseum on Internet bulletin boards and web chat rooms .
 The truth was that some unidentified painter had filled in Da Vinci's sketch like a paint-by-numbers years after his death . Photographs taken with infrared reflectography and X ray suggested that this rogue painter had made suspicious departures from the underdrawing .
 Da Vinci's Mona Lisa seemed bursting to tell a secret, and yet whatever it was remained hidden . Sophie asked Langdon if the key he was holding unlocks the Holy Grail's hiding place . Langdon's laugh sounded forced, even to him, but she insisted .
 Langdon knew her contention was logical, but intuitively he could not possibly accept it . Rumors existed that the Priory had vowed someday to bring the Grail back to France to a final resting place, but no historical evidence existed to suggest this indeed had happened .
 Sophie wondered if this were the moment to tell Langdon what she had witnessed that night in Normandy chateau . She had an image stamped in her memory that confirmed her grandfather's status within the brotherhood . For ten years now, simple shame had kept her from telling a soul .
 Sirens howled somewhere in the distance, and she felt a thickening shroud of fatigue settling over . "There!" Langdon said, feeling excited to see the huge complex of the Roland Garros tennis stadium looming ahead . After several passes, they located the intersection of Rue Haxo and turned onto it .
 Sophie and Langdon were holding the key to a Swiss bank deposit box . Langdon had entirely forgotten that the peaceful, equal-armed cross had been adopted as the perfect symbol for the flag of neutral Switzerland . The last thing he needed to appear tonight was weak or fearful .
 The priest who greeted him at the door looked sleepy . He was the same priest who had greeted Aringarosa five months ago . The library was a vast square room with dark wood from floor to ceiling . The floor was amber marble with black basalt trim, a  reminder that this building had once been a palace .
 Aringarosa tried to see who had spoken, but the lights were ridiculously low . He could see shapes of three men at a long table on the far side of the room . The silhouette of the man in the middle was immediately recognisable . The other two were high-ranking Italian cardinals .
 "You have acted more quickly than we imagined," the secretariat said . "You made your concerns known five months ago," Aringarosa said. "Why should I wait?" "Indeed. We are very pleased with your expediency." "The funds are exactly as I requested?" The secretariat nodded. "The sum is exorbitant."
 The Teacher suggested Aringarosa get the money in Vatican Bank bonds . The Teacher's suggestion served as insurance for the Bishop . "Bonds are negotiable as cash anywhere in the world," he said. "This is  a perfectly legal transaction," Aringrosa defended. "You said so yourself."
 Bishop Aringarosa was surprised how little emotion he felt as he signed the document . Opus Dei is a personal prelature of Vatican City, and His Holiness can disperse monies however he sees fit . "No law has been broken here," the secretariat said .
 The Depository Bank of Zurich was a twenty-four-hour Geldschrank bank offering the full modern  array of anonymous services in the tradition of the Swiss numbered account . Aringarosa sensed the query was more spiritual than geographical . "Paris," he said, and walked out the door .
 The Depository Bank of Zurich offers blind drop services, otherwise known as anonymous safe-deposit boxes . Langdon was traveling with Sophie in a taxi from Zurich to New York . The bank had expanded its services in recent years to offer anonymous computer source code escrow services and faceless digitized backup .
 Switzerland's reputation for secrecy in banking had become one of the country's most lucrative  exports . Sophie stopped the taxi at an imposing gate that blocked the bank's driveway . A video camera overhead was aimed directly at them, and Langdon had the feeling that this camera, unlike those at the Louvre, was authentic .
 Sophie took the gold laser-pocked key from her pocket and turned her attention back to the electronic podium on the driver's side . Sophie aligned the key's triangular shaft with the hole and inserted it, sliding it in until the entire shaft had disappeared . Instantly, the gate began to swing open .
 The private garage was small and dim, with spaces for about a dozen cars . At the far end, Langdon spied the building's main entrance . The door had no handle, but on the wall beside it was another triangular keyhole . "Keeps out the slow learners," Langdon said .
 The Depository Bank of Zurich employed as imposing a . imposing a decor as any Langdon had  ever seen . The message was clear: You are walking into a vault . The gray metal was everywhere — the floor, walls, counters, doors, even the lobby chairs .
 The dual-language greeting was the newest hospitality trick of the European host . It presumed nothing and opened the door for the guest to reply in whichever language was more comfortable . Sophie replied with neither. She simply laid the gold key on the counter in front of the man . The man glanced down and immediately stood straighter. "Of course. Your elevator is at the end of the hall."
 Langdon was surprised to feel the elevator dropping rather than climbing . He had no idea how  many floors they had descended beneath the Depository Bank of Zurich . He was happy to be out of the elevator, but was happy he could finally get to the bank .
 Langdon walked with Sophie down a series of corridors, past several large rooms filled with  blinking mainframe computers . "Void, " their host said, arriving at a steel door and opening it for them . The small room before them looked like a lavish  sitting room at a fine hotel .
 Langdon's first visit to the Swiss safe-deposit box was his first visit . He asked Sophie if she could use the room, and she nodded . "Your key is like a Swiss numbered account, which are often willed through generations. Keys are often passed on as inheritance, and our first-time users are invariably uncertain of the protocol."
 Sophie nodded. "Please." Their host swept an arm across the luxurious salon . "This is your private viewing room. Once I  leave the room, you may spend all the time you need in here to review and modify the contents of your safe-deposit box, which arrives... over here."
 Sophie was about to ask a question when a telephone rang . The man looked puzzled and embarrassed . "I'm sorry, I must leave you now. Make yourselves at home." He hung up, and gave them an uneasy smile . "Could you clarify something before you go?" Sophie asked .
 Lieutenant Collet was standing in the Gare du Nord train terminal when his phone rang . "Interpol got a tip," he said. "Forget the train. Langdon and Neveu just walked into  the Paris branch of the Depository Bank of Zurich . I want your men over there right away."
 Andre Vernet was president of the Paris branch of the Depository Bank of Zurich . Despite his plush accommodations, he had always dreamed of owning a plush apartment on L'lle Saint-Louis . When I retire, Vernet told himself, / will fill my cellar with rare Bordeaux, adorn my salon with a Fragonard .
 The arrival of a gold key client who was wanted by the Judicial Police would be an extremely delicate matter . The bank had enough battles with law enforcement over the privacy rights of their clients without proof that  some of them were criminals . If Vernet moved quickly, this impending disaster could be deftly sidestepped .
 Andre Vernet could tell the police that the fugitives in question had indeed walked into his bank as reported, but because they were not clients and had no account number, they were turned away . He wished the damned watchman had not called Interpol .
 Sophie's grandfather, Jacques Sauniere, was murdered in the Louvre . Banker Andre Vernet looked equally astounded by Sophie's shock . "I don't think he had time," Sophie said . "Jacques and I were dear friends," she said .
 Sophie told Vernet who Langdon was and what had  happened inside the Louvre tonight . "Your pictures are being circulated by Interpol. This is how I recognized you," Vernet said . "You're wanted for a murder." Sophie slumped and said she was certain she had seen nothing behind Madonna of the Rocks .
 Every key is electronically paired with a ten-digit account number that functions as a password . Without that number, your key is worthless . Sophie reluctantly calculated the cryptographic odds. Over ten billion possible choices. Even if she could bring in DCPJ's most powerful parallel processing computers, she still would  need weeks to break the code .
 Sophie sat down beside Langdon, glanced down at the key and then up at Vernet . "Do you have any idea what my grandfather is storing in your bank?" "None whatsoever. That is the definition of a Geldschrank bank."
 Langdon: "Mademoiselle, your family died in a car accident when you were young. I'm sorry. I know your grandfather loved you very much. He mentioned to me several times how much it pained him that you two had fallen out of touch." Langdon asked, "Do the contents of this account have anything to do with the Sangreal?" Vernet gave him an odd look. "I have no idea what that is," Langdon
 Vernet cursed, cursed, gave some quick directions in French, and said he would be up to the lobby in a minute . "The police have responded far more quickly than usual," he said . Sophie had no intention of leaving empty-handed . "Tell them we came and went already. If they  want to search the bank, demand a search warrant," she said .
 Langdon produced the printout of the crime scene photo and spread it out on the coffee table . Sophie needed only to read the first line to know Langdon was correct . The account number was 13-3-2-21-1-8-5 . Langdon: "I'm pretty sure he left it for us after all."
 Sophie realized the Fibonacci numbers were also a clue as to how to decipher the other lines . Langdon was already moving toward the electronic podium near the conveyor belt . The podium had a keypad similar to that of a bank ATM terminal . Sophie grabbed the computer printout and followed Langdon .
 Sophie read the numbers off the printout, and Langdon typed them in . Langdon: "Looks like we only get one try" Standard ATM machines allowed users three attempts to type a PIN before confiscating their bank card . Sophie wasted no time inserting the shaft of her key into the keypad .
 Langdon motioned Sophie to the ENTER key . "This isn't the right account number." "Of course it is! Ten digits. What else would it be?" "It's too random," she said . Langdon could not have disagreed more .
 The Fibonacci sequence was melded into a single ten-digit number, it became virtually unrecognizable . Langdon spotted it, and knew she was right . Sophie reached down and pressed the ENTER key to enter a different number . She gave a sly smile .
 Underneath the bank's subterranean vault, beneath them, a robotic claw sprang to life . Hundreds of identical plastic crates lay aligned on an enormous grid... like rows of small coffins in an underground crypt . Upstairs Sophie and Langdon exhaled in relief to see the conveyor belt move .
 Langdon and Sophie felt like weary travelers at baggage claim awaiting a mysterious piece of luggage whose contents were unknown . The conveyor belt entered the room on their right through a narrow slit beneath a retractable door . The metal door slid up and a huge plastic box appeared, emerging from the depths on the inclined conveyor belt .
 Sophie and Langdon found a small treasure chest her grandfather had sent them to retrieve . Langdon stared in wonderment at the lid's hand-carved inlay — a five-petal rose . Sophie carried the box gingerly to a large receiving table and set it down . The lid bore a beautiful design of a rose .
 The dimensions of the box, the apparent weight of its contents, and a Priory symbol for the Grail all seemed to imply one unfathomable conclusion: The Cup of Christ is in this wooden box . Langdon again told himself it was impossible. It can 't be a chalice'
 Andre Vernet saw the heavy-duty plastic case on the conveyor belt and halted in his tracks . Sophie and Langdon were at the table, huddling over what looked to be a large wooden jewelry box . Sophie immediately closed the lid and looked up. "We had the account number after all," she said .
 Langdon and Sophie Langdon were in the Depository Bank of Zurich's vault . Langdon wrapped the item in his jacket as they made their way through the hallways . Vernet motioned to one of the bank's small armored trucks . He was sweating now .
 Langdon cradled the treasure wadded in his weed jacket . Sophie and Langdon sat down on the metal floor of the empty steel box . "You'll want this on," Vernet said, flicking a wall switch to illuminate the lone courtesy bulb on the hold's ceiling .
 Vernet's armored truck lumbered toward the top of the ramp . He could see there were far more police lights in front than he had imagined . Vernet dabbed his brow and pulled forward . A lanky officer stepped out and waved him to a stop a few meters from the roadblock .
 The agent held up a passport picture of Robert Langdon . "Was this man in your bank tonight?" Vernet shrugged . "Hell if I know," Vernet replied in crude French . "I'm a dock rat. They don't let us anywhere near the clients," he said .
 Vernet forced an obnoxious laugh . "Open the truck? You think I have keys?" Vernet asked the agent . "You should see the crap wages I get paid," Vernet said . "When was this truck sealed?" "Must have been hours ago."
 "I'm on a tight schedule," Vernet tells the police agent . "Do all the drivers wear Rolexes?" the agent asks . "No thanks. Have a safe trip." Vernet did not breathe again until the truck was out of the street .
 Bishop Aringarosa had learned something that left him deeply changed . The bishop's words terrified Silas . He prayed for deliverance, and even in those dark days, his trust  in God and The Way never wavered . He could not justify removing the strap .
 Silas fell to his knees before Bishop Aringarosa — the man who had given him a new life — and he said, "I am a lamb of God. Shepherd me as your heart commands" Silas was awed by the profundity of the Teacher's faith and by the scope of his power .
 Silas now gazed at the bare floor and feared victory had eluded them . The Teacher had  been tricked. The keystone was a devious dead end . Silas wished he could call Bishop Aringarosa and warn him, but the Teacher had removed all their lines of direct communication tonight .
 Langdon fought the all too familiar anxiety that haunted him in confined spaces . Langdon's legs had gotten stiff from sitting cross-legged on the metal floor . The truck, after an unnerving pause atop the bank ramp, had  moved on, snaking left and right for a minute or two .
 Langdon unwrapped his jacket and extracted the box, pulling it toward him . Sophie shifted her position so they were sitting side by side . Langdon had harbored several fantasies about what they might find inside this box . Entire armies and religions had been built on this symbol, as had secret societies .
 Langdon found a marble cylinder in a box filled with silk inside . The cylinder appeared to have been assembled in many pieces . Six doughnut-sized disks of marble had been stacked and affixed to one another within a delicate brass framework . Each of the six disks had been carefully engravings with the same unlikely series of letters .
 Sophie explained that creating models of Leonardo da Vinci's inventions was one of her grandfather's best-loved hobbies . Langdon's eyes widened further, looking again at the canister . Sophie said it's a vault for storing secret information .
 Jacques Sauniere was a talented craftsman who spent hours in his wood and metal shop . He enjoyed imitating master craftsmen like Faberge and Leonardo da Vinci . One of his favorite pastimes was bringing Da Vinci's more obscure brainstorms to life .
 Da Vinci's robot knight was designed to sit up, wave its arms, and move its head via a flexible neck while opening and closing an anatomically correct jaw . The internal mechanism of the robot knight possessed accurate joints and                 tendons . The term cryptex possibly had been her grandfather's creation, an apt title .
 Da Vinci had been a cryptology pioneer, Sophie knew, although he was seldom given credit . Sophie's university instructors failed to mention that he had invented one of the first rudimentary forms of public key encryption centuries ago . In an era without telephones or e-mail, anyone wanting to convey private information to someone far away had no option but to write it down and then trust a messenger to carry the letter .
 Many great minds in history had invented cryptologic solutions to the challenge of data protection . Julius Caesar devised a code-writing scheme called the Caesar Box . Mary, Queen of Scots created a transposition cipher and sent secret communiques from prison . Da Vinci eschewed mathematics and cryptology for a mechanical solution .
 Langdon's grandfather built cryptexs for him when he was younger . Langdon: "A cryptex works much like a  bicycle's combination lock. If you align the dials in the proper position, the lock slides open." Langdon says the answer to the riddle was the password to the cryptex .
 Langdon eyed the device again, still looking skeptical . "But why not just pry it apart? Or smash it? " Sophie smiled. "Because Da Vinci is too smart for that. He designed the cryptex so that if you try  to force it open in any way, the information self-destructs .
 Langdon looked at the cryptex with a glass vial filled with vinegar and papyrus . Langdon nodded, "Brilliant," Sophie said . "The only way to access the information inside is to know the proper five-letter password," Sophie told him . "Approximately twelve million iopossibilities," Sophie estimated .
 In Priory symbolism, the Rose and the Grail are synonymous, Langdon says . Langdon: The Romans hung a rose over meetings to indicate the meeting was confidential . Hanging a rose is an ancient Roman custom, and Langdon said, rather than lock each other out, we can each hang a rose .
 Langdon explained that the Rose's overtone of secrecy was not the only reason the Priory used it as a symbol for the Grail . Rosa rugosa, one of the oldest species of rose, had five petals and pentagonal symmetry, just like the guiding star of Venus, giving the Rose strong iconographic ties .
 Langdon choked, a fearful bewilderment sweeping across his face . "Sub... rosa, " he choked . "It can't be." "Under the sign of the Rose," he whispered . "This cryptex... I  think I know what it is."
 Every stone archway requires a central, wedge-shaped stone at the top which locks the pieces together and carries all the weight . This stone is, in an architectural sense, the key ishly to the vault . Langdon didn't know where to begin . Keystones as a masonry technique for building stone urchways had been one of the best-kept secrets .
 Langdon's interest in the Holy Grail is primarily symbologic, so I tend to ignore the plethora of lore regarding how to actually find it . The Priory keystone — if this was indeed what they were holding — was not at all  what Langdon had imagined . Langdon didn't know what to say, even to him it sounded unbelievable .
 Historians had been searching for the keystone in French churches for the last decade . Leonardo da Vinci — former Grand Master of the Priory of Sion — designed the cryptex . The hiding place seemed diabolically simple, but it was found in a vaulted archway .
 The map to the Holy Grail was incorporated high in an archway of  some forgotten church, mocking the blind churchgoers who wandered beneath it . "This cryptex can't bo, the keystone," Sophie argued, "It's not old enough. It can't be part of any ancient Grail legend." Langdon realized to his surprise that she was right .
 Langdon explains the Priory's biggest secret — the location of the Holy Grail — was never written down . For security's sake, it was transferred to each new rising senechal at a clandestine ceremony . The Priory vowed never again to speak the location .
 Langdon suddenly recalled her mentioning how her grandfather used to make treasure hunts for her — preuves de merite . Sophie looked unsettled by this, and Langdon nodded . "I forgot you'd had experience with this sort of thing," Sophie said .
 Langdon did a double take when Sophie said Langdon knew her grandfather was in a secret society . "I saw some things I wasn't supposed to see ten years ago," Sophie said . Langdon could not believe what she had just said . Sophie looked away, her expression as determined as it was pained .
 Jacques Sauniere? Grand Master? Langdon had the eerie sensation it almost made perfect sense . Previous Priory Grand Masters had also been distinguished public figures with artistic souls . Proof of that fact had been uncovered years ago in Paris's Bibliotheque Nationale in papers known as Les Dossiers Secrets .
 The Grand Master of the Priory of Sion had just transferred the brotherhood's legendary keystone to his granddaughter and  simultaneously commanded her to find Robert Langdon . Langdon's imagination could conjure no set of circumstances that would explain Sauniere's behavior .
 Andre Vernet had told them he would take them well outside the city to safety . Sophie shot Langdon an  uneasy look, hastily closing the cryptex box and latching it . When the truck came to a stop, the locks on the rear doors began to  turn .
 "I have a duty to protect your grandfather's assets," Vernet replied . Langdon watched the gun barrel swing now in his direction . "I don't know how you got that key and account number tonight, but it seems obvious that foul play was involved," he said .
 Langdon was thunderstruck by the coincidence of three more murders . Langdon's eyes dropped to the rosewood box . If the senechaux were murdered, Sauniere had no options. He had to transfer the keystone to someone .
 A gunshot roared, and a bullet tore into the wall above him . Sophie shook her head. "Don't do it." Langdon froze. "Mr. Langdon, pick up the box." Vernet spoke more confidently now. "Now bring it over to me."
 Vernet commanded, "Place the box beside the door" Langdon knelt down and set the rosewood box at the edge of the cargo hold . Langdon brushed the shell over the edge onto the narrow ledge that was the door's lower sill .
 Vernet could feel his own heart pounding . Aiming the gun with his right hand, he reached now with his left for the wooden box . He discovered that it was far too heavy. He lifted the box with two hands, and set it on the ground . Now all that remained was to close and lock the door .
 Vernet shoved hard against the outside of the door, but it refused to budge . The door exploded outward, striking Vernet in the face and sending him reeling . The gun flew as Vernet reached for his face and felt the warm blood running from his nose .
 He heard the crunching of tires on gravel as the truck's wide wheelbase failed to navigate a turn . There was a crash as the  front bumper clipped a tree and the tree bent . The armored car lurched away, its front bumper dragging . Bishop Aringarosa smiled, feeling the weight of the bearer of the briefcase on his lap .
 The Teacher never would have left a recorded message; he was a man who took enormous care with his communications . "Cell service is intermittent up here," the driver said, glancing at him in the rearview mirror . "In about five minutes, we'll be out of the mountains, and service improves," he said .
 Aringarosa feared his phone might not have been working properly . He feared what the Teacher might think if he had been repeatedly phoning with no answer . He '11 think something is wrong. Or that I failed to get the bonds. Or worse... that I took the money and ran! The bishop broke a light sweat .
 Sophie sat in the passenger seat, staring blankly at the rosewood box on her lap . Langdon had not even considered it. "How would he even know what this box contains?" Sophie looked shaken. Langdon shook his head. "Do you believe him?" "Absolutely," Sophie said .
 "In my experience, there are only two reasons people seek the Grail. Either they are naive and believe they are searching for the long-lost ipientCup of Christ..." "Or they know the truth and are threatened by it. Many groups throughout history have sought to  systematically destroy the Grail."
 Langdon realized that any possibility of finding a way to return the keystone to the Priory had just evaporated . News of the three additional murders  had dire implications. The Priory has been infiltrated. The brotherhood  was obviously being watched, or there was a mole within the ranks .
 The truck's front end looked worse than Langdon had imagined . The only good news was that the front bumper had been torn almost clean off . Langdon gave it a hard kick and sensed he might be able to break it off entirely . As he repeatedly kicked the twisted metal, Langdon recalled his earlier conversation with Sophie .
 Langdon and Sophie had no idea how to open the cryptex, or why Sauniere had given it to them . Sophie had not the lightest idea what to do with it . The challenge, of course, would be selling the idea to Sophie . She could feel the weight of the rosewood box on her lap .
 The keystone is a map that can be followed only by the worthy . Sophie ran her fingers over the dials and rotated the mechanism one by one . She aligned the disks such that her chosen letters lined up between the cryptex's two brass alignment arrows on either end of the cylinder . The letters now spelled a five-letter word that Sophie knew was absurdly obvious .
 Robert Langdon is the target of Bezu Fache... and some unseen force intent on possessing the Holy Grail . Sophie wondered if finding out was worth her life . Langdon was not equipped to understand her grandfather's intentions, and so he had assigned Robert to be her guide .
 When whisperings of the Priory keystone surfaced about fifteen  years ago, he moved to France to search churches in hopes of finding it . He's written some books on the keystone and the Grail . He may be able to help us figure out how to open it and what to do .
 Leigh Teabing was a Grail researcher and a descendant of Britain's First Duke of Lancaster . Sophie claimed her grandfather was the actual Grand Master of the Priory of Sion . "Teabing could be a powerful ally," Langdon said. "Fache probably will be offering a monetary reward."
 Langdon first met Teabing several years ago through the British Broadcasting Corporation . He approached the BBC with a proposal for a historical documentary in which he would expose the explosive history of the Holy Grail to a mainstream television audience . The BBC had flown Langdon to his Paris estate for the filming .
 The program aired in Britain, despite its ensemble cast and well-documented evidence, the premise rubbed so hard against the grain of popular Christian thought that it instantly confronted a firestorm of hostility . Shortly afterward, Langdon received a postcard from an old friend — the Catholic Bishop of Philadelphia .
 Langdon: "Leigh Teabing knows more about the Priory of Sion than anyone on earth" Sophie: "He doesn't need money, and I happen to know he despises the French authorities . The French government taxes him at absurd rates because he bought a historic landmark . He'll be in no hurry to cooperate with Fache."
 Sauniere had given the cryptex directly to Sophie, and although  she didn't know what it contained or what she was supposed to do with it, she was hesitant to involve a total stranger . "We don't need to tell Teabing about the keystone immediately. Or at all, even. His  house will give us a place to hide and think, and maybe when we talk to him about the Grail, you'll start to have an idea
 Langdon: "I'll tell you at Teabing's. He and I specialize in different areas of the legend, so  between the two of us, you'll get the full story." Sophie: "Let's hope Leigh doesn't mind late-night visitors."
 The 185-acre estate of Chateau Villette was located twenty-five minutes northwest of Paris . Designed by Francois Mansart in 1668 for the Count of Aufflay, it was one of Paris's most significant historical chateaux . The estate fondly had become known as la Petite Versailles .
 Langdon leaned out across Sophie to press the intercom button . As he did, an alluring whiff of Sophie's perfume filled his nostrils . Langdon had already been through that with Teabing . "He prefers things the way they are at home," Langdon said .
 Sir Leigh Teabing had suffered from polio as a child and now wore leg braces and walked with crutches . Langdon had found him such a lively and colorful man on his last visit that it hardly seemed an infirmity . "I thought that might get you out of bed."
 "Those who seek the truth are more than friends. They are brothers." Langdon rolled his eyes at Sophie, well accustomed to Teabing's predilection for dramatic antics . Langdon groaned, whispering at Sophie. "Bear with me here. As I mentioned, he's something of a  character."
 In which year did a Harvard sculler last outrow an Oxford man at Henley?" Langdon had no idea, but he could imagine only one reason the question had been asked . "Surely  such a travesty has never occurred," Langdon thought . "Your heart is true, my friend. You may pass."
 The police were threatening to have the DCPJ captain himself show up with the warrant the bank had demanded . Each of the bank's armored trucks had been equipped with a radio-controlled homing device, which could be activated remotely from the bank .
 The manager had only used the emergency system  once, after a hijacking, and it had worked flawlessly . Tonight, however, the manager had the impression the president was hoping for a bit more prudence . Langdon and Sophie drove the armored truck up the winding, poplar-lined driveway toward the  house .
 Chateau Villette is a private, gated estate owned by  a good-natured foreigner . Langdon pulled into a parking area nestled in the evergreens . "No reason to risk being spotted from the road," he said. "Or having Leigh wonder why we arrived in a wrecked armored truck."
 Langdon removed his jacket as he stepped out of the car . Langdon wrapped the tweed coat around the box and held the bundle in his arms like a baby . Sophie looked dubious, but Langdon said, "Not to worry," "I'll find somewhere inside to hide this before he joins us."
 He looked to be about fifty, with refined features and an austere  expression that left little doubt he was unamused by their presence here . "Sir Leigh will be down presently," he declared, his accent thick French . The air inside smelled antediluvian, regal somehow, with traces of pipe tobacco, tea leaves, cooking sherry, and earthen aroma of stone architecture .
 Langdon unwrapped the cryptex from his coat, walked to the velvet divan, slid the wooden box underneath it, out of sight . Sophie wondered which of the fireside antiques she was supposed to sit on . The man stood, straightening his jacket, "His master requests that you make yourselves at home"
 The dark wood paneling was bedecked with Old Master paintings, one of which Sophie recognized as a Poussin, her grandfather's second-favorite painter . On the mantel above the fireplace, an alabaster bust of Isis watched over the room . Beneath the Egyptian goddess, two stone gargoyles served as andirons, their mouths gushing water .
 Sophie's grandfather's  final words had instructed her to find Robert Langdon . He had said nothing about involving anyone else . Sophie pictured the cryptex under the divan and wondered if Leigh Teabing would have any idea how to open it . "Sir Robert!" a voice bellowed somewhere behind them .
 Sir Leigh Teabing arrived at the bottom of the stairs, appearing to Sophie no more like a knight than Sir Elton John . He wore pleated pants and a roomy silk shirt under a paisley vest . "Perhaps Robert told you I schooled just down the road at Oxford," he said .
 The butler who answered the door now entered carrying a tea service . Sophie glanced at Langdon, uncertain whether she'd stepped back in time or into a nuthouse . Despite the aluminum braces on his legs, he carried himself with a resilient, vertical dignity that seemed more a by-product of noble ancestry .
 Teabing: "I would have thought you'd import an English staff?" "Good heavens, no! I would not wish a British chef on anyone except the French tax collectors" Langdon: "Please be assured that my distaste for the French extends only to politics and the soccer pitch."
 Langdon asked Leigh Teabing to talk to her about the Priory of Sion . "We might have a better idea if we could get some information from you first," Langdon said . "I was hoping you would be kind enough to explain to Ms. Neveu the true nature of the Holy Grail," he said .
 Sir Leigh Teabing was beaming as he awkwardly paced before the open fire, his leg braces clicking on the stone hearth . Langdon apparently decided the unseemly metaphor had gone far enough . Sophie drank her tea and ate a scone, feeling the welcome  effects of caffeine and food .
 Teabing: "To fully understand the Grail, we must first understand the Bible" Sophie: "Not at all, really. I was raised by a man who worshipped Leonardo da Vinci." "I fear  that is a question I may never answer."
 Langdon went across the room, found a large art book, and brought it back, setting it down on the  table between them . He flipped open the heavy cover to a series of quotations from Leonardo Da Vinci's notebook on polemics and speculation . Sophie read the words .
 Teabing cleared his throat and declared, "The Bible did not agicallyarrive by fax from heaven" "The bible is a product of man, my dear. Not of God," he said . "Everything you need to know about the Bible can be summed up by  the great canon doctor Martyn Percy."
 The Bible, as we know it today, was collated by the pagan Roman emperor Constantine the Great . Constantine was a lifelong pagan who was baptized on his deathbed, too weak to protest . Three centuries after the crucifixion of Jesus Christ, Christ's  followers had multiplied exponentially .
 In 325 A.D., Constantine decided to unify Rome under a single religion . By fusing pagan symbols, he created a kind of hybrid religion acceptable to both parties . Historians still marvel at the brilliance with  which Constantine converted the sun-worshipping pagans to Christianity .
 The pre-Christian God Mithras — called the Son of God and the Light of the World — was born on December 25, died, was buried in a rock tomb, and then resurrected in three days . December 25 is also the birthday of Osiris, Adonis, and Dionysus . The newborn Krishna was presented with gold, frankincense, and myrrh .
 Langdon: "Christianity honored the Jewish Sabbath of Saturday, but Constantine ishlyshifted it to coincide with the pagan's veneration day of the sun" "To this  day, most churchgoers attend services on Sunday morning with no idea that they are there on account of the pagan sun god's weekly tribute — Sunday" Sophie's head was spinning. "And all of this relates to the Grail?" Langdon asked .
 Teabing: "Until that moment in history, Jesus was viewed by His followers as  a mortal prophet... a great and powerful man, but a man nonetheless. A mortal." Constantine turned Jesus into a deity who existed beyond the scope of the human world, an entity whose power was unchallengeable .
 Many scholars claim that the early Church stole Jesus from His original followers, hijacking His human message, shrouding it in an impenetrable cloak of divinity . "It was all about power," Teabing said . "And I assume devout Christians send you hate mail on a daily basis?" Sophie asked .
 Teabing: Constantine upgraded Jesus' status almost four centuries after Jesus' death . Thousands of documents already existed chronicling His  life as a mortal man . To rewrite the history books, Constantine knew he would need a bold stroke . From this sprang the most profound moment in Christian history .
 Teabing: Those who 'chose' the original history of Christ were the  world's first heretics . The Dead Sea Scrolls were found in the 1950s hidden in a cave near                 Qumran in the Judean desert . The scrolls highlight glaring historical discrepancies and fabrications .
 Langdon: "The modern Church's desire to suppress these documents comes from a sincere belief in their established view of Christ" Teabing: "It's important to remember that the Vatican is made up of deeply pious men who truly believe these contrary documents could only be false testimony"
 Sophie was staring at the most famous fresco of all time — The Last Supper — Da Vinci's legendary painting from the wall of Santa Maria delle Grazie near Milan . "I assume you recognize this fresco?" Sophie replied, "Yes, yes."
 Teabing: "Jesus passed a single chalice of wine, just as modern Christians do at communion." Sophie: "A bit strange, don't you think, considering that both the Bible and our  standard Grail legend celebrate this moment as the definitive arrival of the Holy Grail."
 The Last Supper is the entire key to the Holy Grail mystery, says Teabing . Langdon: "The Holy Grail is not a thing. It is, in  fact... a person" Sophie: "Does this fresco tell us what the Grail really is?"
 Langdon: "Sophie, are you familiar with the modern icons for male and female?" He drew the common male symbol c? and female symbol ¥ . The symbols originated as ancient astronomical symbols for the planet-god Mars and planet-goddess Venus .
 In fact, this exact phallus symbol is still used today on modern military uniforms to  systematicallydenote rank." "Indeed." Teabing grinned. "The more penises you have, the higher your rank. Boys will be boys." Langdon winced.
 The Grail is literally the ancient symbol for womanhood, Teabing says . The Holy Grail represents the sacred feminine and the goddess, which of course has now been lost, ually eliminated by the Church . The power of the female and her ability to produce life was once very sacred, he says .
 Langdon: "The Grail is symbolic of the lost goddess. When Christianity came along, the old pagan religions did not die easily" Legends of chivalric quests for the lost Grail were in fact stories  of forbidden quests to find the lost sacred feminine .
 Lieutenant Collet wondered what was taking Fache so long to come up with a search warrant . Two rooms away, in the kitchen, manservant Remy Legaludec stood in silence before a television . The news station was broadcasting photos of a man and woman... the same two individuals to whom Remy had just served tea .
 Lt. Collet radioed the five cars accompanying him to Langdon's location . "No sirens, men. Langdon can't know we're coming," Collet said . Langdon was about to make the most high-profile arrest of  his career .
 Silas got out and peered through the rungs of the wrought-iron fence that encircled the compound before him . He gazed up the long moonlit slope to the chateau in the distance . The downstairs lights were all ablaze, Silas thought, smiling .
 Six or seven times larger than even the  most luxurious of office spaces, the knight's cabinet de travail resembled an ungainly hybrid of science laboratory, archival library, and indoor flea market . Sophie felt as if the entire night had become some kind of twilight zone where nothing was as she expected .
 The Last Supper is a painting of  thirteen men . Sophie was certain she had missed something . "The Holy Grail does indeed make an appearance in The Last Supper," Teabing said . Sophie turned to Langdon for help. Langdon smiled .
 The Last Supper is supposed to be thirteen men . Sophie could not take her eyes from the woman beside Christ . The individual had flowing red hair, delicate folded hands, and the hint of a bosom . It was, without a doubt... female .
 Sophie had seen this classic image many times, but had not once noticed this glaring discrepancy . "Everyone misses it," Teabing said. "Our preconceived notions of this scene are so powerful that our mind blocks out the incongruity and overrides our eyes"
 Sophie asked, "Who is she?" Teabing replied, "That, my dear, is Mary Magdalene." Sophie turned Sophie's eyes moved to Langdon and then back to him . "Magdalene was no such  thing. That unfortunate misconception is the legacy of a smear campaign launched by the early Church," he said . "Herro/e?" Sophie asked .
 The Last Supper practically shouts at the viewer that Jesus and Magdalene were a pair, Teabing says . Jesus wore a red robe and blue cloak; Mary Magdelene wore a blue robe and red cloak . Sophie was mesmerized. Sure enough, their clothes were inverse colors .
 Teabing: "If you view Jesus and Magdalene as compositional elements rather than people, you will see another obvious shape leap out at you" Sophie saw it at once. Glaring in the center of the painting was the unquestionable outline of an enormous, flawlessly formed letter M .
 The most blatant M, of course, is emblazoned on the altar at Our Lady of Paris in London, which was designed by a former Grand Master of the Priory of Sion, Jean Cocteau . Sophie: "I'll admit, the hidden M's are intriguing, although I assume nobody is claiming they are proof of Jesus' marriage to Magdalene." "Moreover, Jesus as a married man makes infinitely more sense than our standard
 If Jesus were not married, at least one of the Bible's gospels would have mentioned it and offered some explanation for His unnatural state of bachelorhood . Teabing located a huge book and pulled it toward him across the table . Sophie could see it contained photographs of what appeared  to be magnified passages of ancient documents .
 Sophie Langdon's grandfather, Richard Teabing, has written a book about the relationship between Jesus and Mary Magdalene . Sophie read the passage:  And the companion of the Saviour is Mary Magdalene. Christ loved her more than all the disciples and used to kiss her often on her mouth .
 The Last Temptation of Christ was about Jesus having sex with a lady called Mary Magdalene . Sophie found her grandfather's name on an article on the second  page of the paper . The article said the French government had agreed to ban an American movie called The Last Temptation  Christ .
 The priest yelled, "How can you possibly endorse that! This American Martin Scorsese is a blasphemer, and  the Church will permit him no pulpit in France ! " When her grandfather came into the kitchen, he saw Sophie with the paper and frowned . Sophie said, "You think Jesus Christ had a girlfriend?" Her grandfather was silent for several moments .
 Sophie Teabing had not known a gospel existed in Magdalene's words . She read the text: "Did the Saviour really speak with a woman without our knowledge?" She asked: "Are we to turn about and all listen to her? Did he prefer her to us?"
 Langdon: According to these unaltered gospels, it was not Peter to whom Christ gave directions with which  to establish the Christian Church . "You're saying  Christian Church was to be carried on by a woman?" Langdon said . "That's Peter  there. You can see that Da Vinci was well aware."
 Langdon pointed to the crowd of disciples near Peter . Sophie squinted and saw a hand emerging from the crowd . "Aha!" Teabing exclaimed again . "Therein lies the rub!" He turned once more to the table and pulled out a large chart, spreading it out for her .
 Magdalene was recast as a whore in order to erase evidence of her powerful family ties." Sophie found herself again glancing at Langdon, who again nodded . She turned back to Teabing, who smiled and said: "Mary Magdalenes was of royal descent"
 The legend of the Holy Grail is a legend about royal blood, says Teabing . Sophie felt the hairs stand up on her arms . She was transfixed by the revelation that Mary Magdalene carried the royal bloodline of Jesus Christ . She paused and looked at Langdon, "Unless they had a child"
 Teabing: "The royal bloodline of Jesus Christ is the source of the most enduring legend of all time — the Holy Grail" Sangreal derives from San Great — or Holy Grail — but in  ancient form, the word Sangreal was divided in a different spot . Sangreal literally meant Royal Blood .
 Bishop Aringarosa's daily schedule showed him in New York this weekend, yet he  sounded a world away . Receptionist in the lobby of the Opus Dei headquarters was surprised to hear his voice on the line . The bishop quickly severed the connection, and wondered why he sounded crackly .
 Bishop Aringarosa had been acting very strangely the last few months . My cellular phone must not have been receiving, he thought as the Fiat approached the exit for Rome's Ciampino Charter Airport . Despite his concern at having missed the call, he felt encouraged that the Teacher felt confident enough to call Opus Dei headquarters directly .
 Sophie felt a new wave of disorientation as she stood in the silence of the ballroom and stared at Robert Langdon . The Holy Grail is Mary Magdalene... the mother of the royal bloodline of Jesus Christ . The more pieces Langdon and Teabing laid on the table tonight, the more unpredictable this puzzle became .
 The royal bloodline of Jesus Christ has been chronicled in exhaustive detail by scores of historians . Teabing: "You were young. This caused quite a stir back in the nineteen eighties. To my taste, the authors  made some dubious leaps of faith in their analysis, but their fundamental premise is sound."
 Langdon: "Outrage, of course, but that was to be expected. After all, this was a secret the Vatican had tried to  meticulouslybury in the fourth century . The Church, in order to defend itself against the Magdalene's power, perpetuated her image as a whore and buried evidence of Christ's marriage to her, thereby defusing any potential  claims that Christ had a surviving bloodline and was a mortal prophet." Sophie glanced at Langdon, who
 Teabing: "A child of Jesus would undermine the critical notion of Christ's divinity" Langdon: "She has a good eye" Sophie: "The five-petal rose is the Priory symbol for the Grail . The Rose has ties to the five-pointed pentacle of Venus .
 The Rose has always been the premiere symbol of female sexuality . In primitive goddess cults, the five petals represented the five stations of female life . In modern times, the flowering rose's ties to womanhood are considered more visual .
 The Priory of Sion, to this day, still worships Mary Magdalene as the Goddess, the Holy Grail, the Rose, and the Divine Mother . Sophie flashed on the ritual in the basement . Langdon: "All of these books substantiate the same historical claim."
 Magdalene's child belonged to the lineage of Jewish kings — David and Solomon . For this reason, the Jews in France considered her sacred royalty and revered her  as the progenitor of the royal line of kings . Sophie was startled to discover that there exists a family tree of Jesus Christ .
 The Sangreal documents include tens of thousands of pages of information . In those trunks are reputed to be the Purist Documents, written by the early followers of Jesus . In the end, which side of the story you believe becomes a matter of faith .
 Also rumored to be part of the treasure is the legendary "Q" Document — a book of Jesus' izations, possibly written in His own hand . "Why wouldn't Jesus have kept a chronicle of His ministry? Most people did in those days," Sophie Teabing says .
 Teabing: "The quest for the Holy Grail is literally the quest to kneel before the bones of Mary Magdalene. A journey to pray at the feet of the outcast one, the lost sacred feminine." Sophie felt an unexpected wonder . "It is a tomb containing the body of Mary Magdalene and the  documents that tell the true story of her life," he said .
 The early Church feared that if the lineage were permitted to grow, the secret of Jesus and Magdalene would eventually surface and challenge the fundamental Catholic doctrine — that of a divine Messiah who did not consort with women or engage in sexual union . Christ's line grew quietly under cover in France until making a bold move in the fifth century, when it intermarried with French royal blood .
 Many of the Vatican's Grail quests here were in fact stealth missions to erase members of the royal bloodline . With Dagobert's murder, the Merovingian bloodline was almost exterminated . Fortunately, his son, Sigisbert, escaped the attack and carried on the lineage, which later included Godefroi de Bouillon .
 Sophie felt an odd vibration, as if her bones were reverberating with some new kind of truth . Her grandfather's voice again was whispering in her ear . Princess Sophie could not imagine. Descendants of Jesus who survived into modern times .
 Sophie felt hollow as she listened to the clicking of Teabing's crutches fade down the hallway . Langdon was already shaking his head as if he was reading her mind . Sophie turned and faced Langdon in the deserted ballroom .
 Langdon: "Sauniere is not a Merovingian name." Sophie wasn't sure whether to feel relieved or disappointed . Only two direct lines of Merovingians remain . Their family names are Plantard and Saint-Clair . Both families live in hiding, probably protected by the Priory .
 Sophie wished her grandfather had never mentioned her family this afternoon . He had torn open old wounds that felt as painful now as ever . She thought of her mother singing her to sleep at night, of her father giving her rides on his shoulders, and of her grandmother and younger brother smiling at her with fervent green eyes .
 Langdon looked as if he wanted to put a comforting hand on her shoulder, but he refrained . "The Grail story is everywhere, but it is hidden," he said . Langdon quickly told her about works by Da Vinci, Botticelli, Poussin, Bernini, Mozart, and Victor Hugo .
 "Once you open your eyes to the Holy Grail," Langdon said, "you see her everywhere" Like Leonardo da Vinci, Walt Disney loved infusing hidden messages and symbolism in his art . Most of Disney's hidden messages dealt with religion, pagan myth, and stories of the subjugated goddess .
 It was no mistake that Disney retold tales like Cinderella, Sleeping Beauty, and Snow White dealt with the incarceration of the sacred feminine . Despite its corporate image, Disney still had a savvy, playful element among its employees, and artists still amused themselves by inserting hidden symbolism .
 The Little Mermaid was a spellbinding tapestry  of spiritual symbols so specifically goddess-related that they could not be coincidence . Langdon suspected this was more of a cartoonist's ophomoric prank than any kind of enlightened allusion to pagan human sexuality .
 The Little Mermaid's flowing red hair was certainly no coincidence either . The clicking of Teabing's crutches approached in the hallway, his pace unusually brisk . "You'd better explain yourself, Robert," he said coldly . "I'm being framed, Leigh," Langdon said, trying to stay calm .
 "We have information about the clef de voute. The Priory keystone," Sophie said . "Please find your car, and leave," Teabing said . Langdon whispered, "We know where it is," Sophie whispered .
 In the thick brush outside Teabing's study, Silas clutched his pistol and gazed through the glass doors . Only moments ago, he had circled the house and seen Langdon and the woman talking in  the large study . A man on crutches entered, yelled at Langdon, threw  open the doors, and demanded his guests leave .
 If they did not reveal where they had placed the keystone, Silas would have to enter and persuade them with force . Langdon could sense their host's bewilderment inside the study . "Jacques Sauniere was my grandfather." Sophie nodded, seeing the shock in his eyes . "But you could not possibly know that!"
 Langdon: "The keystone reveals the pathway to the brotherhood's ultimate treasure" Sophie: "In addition to my grandfather, three other prominent Parisians were murdered today. All looked like they had  been interrogated" Teabing: "I guess you didn't see the entire news broadcast"
 A murderer could not possibly learn the identities of all four top members of the Priory ishlyof Sion! "I doubt the information was gathered in a single day," Sophie said . "It sounds like a well-planned decapiter. It's a technique we use to fight organized crime syndicates," Sophie says .
 Teabing gasped, "If they never divulged the secret, and they were killed, the location of the keystone would be lost forever!" Sophie walked over, her voice soft, "It seems possible  that in total desperation he tried to pass the secret on to someone outside the brotherhood. Someone in his family."
 Teabing: "It would not be the first time in history the Church has killed to protect itself" Langdon: "Rome has been seeking the Grail for centuries." Sophie: "Isn't it possible that these Priory members were murdered by someone outside the Church? Someone who didn't understand what the Grail really is?"
 Robert Teabing: "I sense a desperation in this assault on the Priory" Langdon: Why would members of the Catholic clergy murder Priory members in an effort to find and destroy documents they believe are false testimony anyway? "The ivory towers of Harvard have made you soft, Robert. Yes, the clergy in Rome are blessed with potent faith, and because of this, their beliefs can weather any storm,  including documents that contradict everything they hold dear
 Teabing: "The Vatican faces a crisis of faith unprecedented in its two-millennia history" Sophie: "If it is the Church who is responsible for this attack, why  would they act now? After all these years? The Priory keeps the Sangreal documents hidden."
 Langdon felt his breath catch at the thought . "Miss Neveu," Teabing said, "the Church and the Priory have had a tacit understanding for years" Sophie stared at Teabling in silence . "And you think that date is approaching? And the Church knows it?"
 Teabing: "We are currently in an epoch of enormous change. The millennium has recently passed, and with it has ended the two-thousand-year-long astrological Age of Pisces . The Piscean ideal believes that man must be told what to do by higher powers because man is incapable of thinking for himself .
 Astrological prophecy never held much interest or credibility for Langdon, but he knew there were those in the Church who followed it very closely . "The Church calls this transitional period the End of Days," Langdon said . Now that we've passed into the Age of Aquarius, "End of Days has arrived," he said .
 Teabing: "If the Church finds the Holy Grail, they will destroy it. The documents and the documents of the blessed Mary Magdalene as well." He says the Church might be motivated to launch a preemptive attack against the Priory . Teabings: "Many Grail historians believe that //"the Priory is indeed planning to release ...this truth, this point in history would be a symbolically apt time"
 Sophie pulled the cruciform key from her sweater pocket and held it out to Teabing . "My goodness. The Priory seal. Where did you get this?" "My grandfather gave it to me tonight before he died," Sophie said . "Impossible! What church did I miss? I've searched every church in France!"
 Langdon said, "It was stored in a rosewood box inlaid with a five-petal Rose" Teabing came over to them, his eyes wild with fear . "My friends, we must do something. We have a duty to protect it," Sophie said . Langdon: "The keystone is well hidden." "Extremely well hidden, I hope ! "
 Silas crept to the glass doors of Chateau Villette . He could hear muffled voices from another room . The Teacher's words were fresh in his mind. Take the keystone. It is inside. It's inside . Lieutenant Collet stood alone at the foot of Leigh Teabing's driveway .
 Lieutenant Collet was about to call Fache himself when at last his phone rang . Fache sounded not nearly as pleased with the developments as Collet would have imagined . Langdon could not have chosen a more ideal spot for Collet's men to make a surprise assault .
 Fache wanted to be sure his own face got equal time with Langdon's arrest . Lt. Collet's job was simply to hold down the fort until the boss showed up to save the day . In law enforcement, hesitating to arrest a fugitive only occurred when uncertainty had arisen regarding suspect's guilt .
 Captain Fache had gone out on a limb tonight to arrest Robert Langdon — surveillance cachee, Interpol, and now television . Not even the great Bezu Fache would survive the political fallout if he had mistakenly splashed a prominent American's face all over French television, claiming he was a murderer . If Fache now realized he'd made a mistake, then it  made perfect sense that he would tell Collet not to make a move .
 Fache had posited all kinds of explanations to explain Sophie's odd behavior . Sophie Neveu seemed far too  out of character to be mixed up in something that sordid . Collet was fairly certain something else was going on here .
 Lt. Collet was speechless . He thought of the armored truck driver he had stopped at the roadblock . He prayed this was some kind of bizarre coincidence, but he knew it could not be . The armored truck is how Langdon and Neveu got away from the bank, agent said .
 Bishop Aringarosa clutched an airsickness bag, certain he  could be ill at any moment . Collet realized that someone in the bank had actually lied to DCPJ about Langdon and Sophie's whereabouts . Hundreds of miles to the south, a chartered Beechcraft Baron 58 raced northward .
 The Rose is Magdalene is the Holy Grail . Teabing has spent over a decade searching for this keystone . He ran a palm across the wooden lid, feeling the  texture of the inlaid flower . "Lift the lid," Sophie whispered, standing over him beside Langdon .
 The key to finding the Holy Grail lies inside a stone cylinder, crafted of interconnecting dials . Teabing lifted the heavy cryptex from the box, holding it gently . Although he had no idea how to open the cylinder, he sensed his own destiny lay inside . He could hear the ancient words... the foundation of the Grail .
 Langdon carried the rosewood box across the room to a well-lit table to get a better look at it . The key to the Grail is hidden beneath the sign of the Rose, Teabing said . Langdon looked again at the Rose. Beneath the Rose .
 Teabing's manservant most likely had passed through . Langdon ran his finger over the smooth edge of the inlay, wondering if he could pry the Rose out . He doubted even a razor blade could fit in between the inlaid Rose and the carefully carved depression into which it was seated . The light caught what appeared to be a small hole on the underside of the lid .
 Langdon heard something clatter quietly onto the table . It was a small piece of wood, like a puzzle piece . engraved in the wood, written in an immaculate hand, were four lines of text in a language he had never seen . The characters look vaguely Semitic, Langdon thought .
 Sophie and Teabing were seated on the divan, arms raised as their attacker had commanded . Langdon lay groaning groaning on the floor . Sophie wondered where her manservant was, didn't he hear Robert fall? "My Teacher is very wise," the monk replied, inching closer .
 "You're bleeding," Teabing noted calmly, nodding to the monk's right ankle where a trickle of blood had run down his leg . "The Grail is priceless," the monk said . "Stand up slowly, and give it to me." Sophie felt helpless as the monk reached out to take the cylinder .
 "It's quite heavy," the man on crutches said, his arm wavering now . "If you don't take it soon, I'm afraid I shall drop it!" Silas stepped quickly forward to take the stone, and as he did, the man lost his balance . The metal crutch that had been sliding out from under the man seemed to accelerate, cutting a wide arc through the air toward Silas's leg . Splinters of pain tore up
 Silas crumpled to his knees, causing the belt to cut deeper still . The pistol discharged with a deafening roar, the bullet burying itself harmlessly in the floorboards as Silas fell . Before he could raise the gun and fire again, the woman's foot caught him square beneath the jaw .
 Robert Langdon had heard the gunshot . He'd also heard a scream of pain . His own? A jackhammer was boring a hole into the back of his cranium . Sophie was holding an ice pack to his head . Langdon drifted out again .
 Langdon was rescued by a knight brandishing an Excalibur made by Acme Orthopedic . Sophie's touch was shaken but tender, "Just give yourself a minute, Robert." "I fear," Teabing said, "that I've just demonstrated for your lady friend the unfortunate benefit of my condition."
 He pointed his crutch at the blood soaking through the monk's cloak . "Opus Dei," Langdon whispered, recalling recent media coverage of several prominent Boston businessmen who were members of the sect . The media spotlighted their spiritual commitment only briefly before moving on to the shock value .
 Police burst through the front door of Sir Leigh Teabing's estate with their guns drawn . They found a bullet hole  on the drawing room floor, signs of a struggle, a small amount of blood, a strange, barbed leather belt, and a partially used roll of duct tape . The entire level seemed deserted .
 Collet and his men move room by room through the huge home, securing darkened bedrooms and hallways as they closed in on the sounds of voices . The sound seemed to be coming from the last bedroom on an exceptionally long hallway . The agents inched down the corridor, sealing off alternate exits .
 The rumbling sounds of an automobile engine poured from a black electronic panel on the wall  around the bed . Collet was downstairs in seconds, running toward the back door, grabbing one of his agents . The men crossed the rear lawn and arrived breathless at the front of a weathered gray arbarn .
 They lured us upstairs with the intercom! Searching the other side of the barn, he found a long line of horse stalls . The collection was astonishing — a black Ferrari, a pristine Rolls-Royce, an antique Astin Martin sports coupe, a vintage Porsche 356 .
 The Range Rover was Java Black Pearl, four-wheel drive, standard transmission, with high-strength polypropylene lamps, rear light cluster fittings . Langdon was pleased he was not driving . Teabing's manservant Remy was doing an impressive job of euvering the vehicle across the moonlit fields behind Chateau Villette .
 Langdon forced a pained smile as he cradled the keystone in the passenger seat . "So glad you popped in this evening, Robert," Teabing said, grinning as if he were having fun for the first time in years . "Sorry to get you involved in this, Leigh."
 Teabing guided the Range Rover through an opening in the hedge . As the vehicle lurched onto an overgrown pathway, almost immediately the trees overhead blotted out the moonlight . Langdon found the button and pressed it to get into the woods .
 A muted yellow glow fanned out across the path in front of them, revealing thick underbrush on either side of the pathway . "Where are we going?" Sophie asked . "This trail continues about three kilometers into the forest," Teabing said . Langdon was eager to remove the inlay again and examine the  engraving beneath more closely .
 He unlatched the lid and began to raise it when Teabing laid a hand on his shoulder from behind . The monk in back was moaning now, struggling against his trusses . "Patience, Robert," he said. "It's bumpy and dark. God save us if we break anything."
 The police apparently want you badly enough to have tailed you to my home, Sophie said . "My fault," Sophie said. "The armored car probably had a transmitter." "I'm not surprised the police found you, but I am surprised that this Opus Dei character found you," Teabing said . Langdon considered it. Bezu Fache seemed intent on finding a scapegoat for tonight's murders .
 Richard Teabing dialed the car phone on the dash . He waited for a very long time before someone answered . "My plane cost me a Queen's ransom," he said . "I'm feeling a bit off. I need to pop up to the Isles for my treatments. Well, right away."
 Teabing: "I am finished with France. I moved here to find the keystone. I shan't care if I ever again see Chateau Villette." Sophie: "How will we get through airport security?" "London will be much safer," Sophie said .
 Langdon suddenly didn't want anything to do with the embassy . All he could think of was the keystone, the inscription, and whether it would all lead to the Grail . He wondered if Teabing was right about Britain . He suddenly felt as if he were living in a bubble .
 "Just because I am returning to the Queen's realm  does not mean I intend to subject my palate to bangers and mash for the rest of my days. I expect you will join me there permanently. I'm planning to buy a splendid villa in Devonshire, and we'll  have all your things shipped up immediately."
 Silas was wedged in the back of the Range Rover with duct tape, kitchen twine and duct tape . His arms were wrenched backward and heavily lashed to his ankles . Every bump in the  road sent pain shooting through his twisted shoulders .
 Silas felt as if his lips had just caught fire, but the air pouring into his lungs was sent from God . The keystone was the link to the Holy Grail, and the Holy Grail was the key to protecting the faith . Silas feared he had failed the Teacher and  the bishop forever .
 Langdon's captors have the keystone! They will reach the Grail before we do! In the stifling darkness,  Silas prayed . He let the pain of his body fuel his supplications . He had no way even to contact them and tell them the terrible turn of events .
 New York editor Jonas Faukman had just climbed into bed for the night when the telephone rang . Langdon dialed zero, knowing that the next sixty seconds might answer a question that had been puzzling him all night . "Robert? You wake me up and you charge me for it?"
 Faukman had no intention of printing Advance Reading Copies of Langdon's book without at least a few  endorsements from serious historians and art luminaries . Jonas had chosen ten big names in the art world and sent them sections of the manuscript along with a polite letter asking if they would be willing to write a short endorsement for the jacket .
 "When did you send it?" "About a month ago. I also mentioned you would be in Paris soon and suggested you two chat . Did  he ever call you to meet?" Faukman paused, rubbing his eyes. "Hold on, aren't you supposed to be  in Paris this week?"
 Langdon: "I took no position on the Priory's actions." Teabing: "Here's the million-dollar question: Was your position on Priory favorable or unfavorable?" Langdon shrugged. "A cruel coincidence, my friend," Langdon said .
 Sophie looked at him. "Did you mention the keystone?" Langdon winced. "I talked about the supposed keystone as an example of  the lengths to which the Priory would go to protect the Sangreal documents." Sophie looked amazed. "Think about it, Robert. "
 Sophie: "If Captain Fache didn't find the envelope in which your editor sent the manuscript, he would have to conclude that you sent it and lied about it" Langdon: "That's Elizabeth?" Teabing grinned. "Beats the bloody Chunnel."
 The pilot's eyes bulged at the sight of the weapon . Sophie thought I'm fleeing the country, Sophie thought, her body forced back into the leather seat . Sophie had believed her game of cat and mouse with Fache would be somehow justifiable to the Ministry of Defense .
 Sophie was attempting to protect an innocent man. I was trying to fulfill my  grandfather's dying wishes. That window of opportunity, Sophie knew, had just closed. She was  leaving the country, without documentation, accompanying a wanted man, and transporting a ishlybound hostage .
 Teabing's manservant Remy sat with the pistol in hand, begrudgingly carrying out his orders to stand guard over the bloody monk . The dignified surroundings did little to camouflage the less than  dignified state of affairs in the rear of the plane .
 Sophie nodded, although she felt a second motivation still burning within her . Despite Langdon's assurances that the keystone had nothing to do with her past, Sophie still sensed something deeply personal entwined within this mystery . Teabing: "Understandably, you feel obliged to follow the trail wherever it leads"
 A two-thousand-year-old flame that cannot be allowed to go out . "I realize you have been  given no choice in this matter, Miss Neveu, but considering what is at stake here, you must either embrace this responsibility... or you must pass that responsibility to someone else."
 Teabing: "The brotherhood was shattered tonight. Decapitated, as you so aptly put it." Langdon: "I would not trust anyone who stepped forward  from the brotherhood at this point." Sophie: "You will be faced with the responsibility of  revealing that truth to the world."
 Langdon: "They have been waiting for the right moment in history to share their secret" Sophie: "The monk's purpose is the Church's purpose," Teabing replied . Langdon intervened, "The task of saving the Holy Grail clearly includes carrying out the Priory's final wishes of sharing the truth with the world"
 "To quote your words, 'You do not find the Grail, the Grail finds you,' I am going to trust that the Grail has found me for a reason, and when the time comes, I will know what to do." Lieutenant Collet watched the dying fire and felt despondent .
 Captain Fache had arrived moments earlier and was now in the next room, yelling into the phone, trying to coordinate the failed attempt to locate the missing Range Rover . It could be anywhere by now, Collet thought . The black Audi outside had been rented in a false name with false credit card numbers, and the prints in the car matched nothing in the Interpol database .
 Central just heard from Andre Vernet at the Depository Bank of Zurich . He wants to talk to you privately, but he's agreed to cooperate fully . "In exchange for what?" "It sounds like Langdon and Neveu stole something from Sauniere's account"
 Maybe Langdon and Neveu had held a bank employee at gunpoint? Maybe they forced Vernet to open Sauniere's account and facilitate an escape in the armored truck? Collet was having trouble believing Sophie Neveu could be involved in anything like that . The takeoff had been unscheduled, and no flight plan had been logged .
 Fache was certain that by applying the right pressure, he could get  the answers he was looking for . "Lieutenant Collet," Fache barked, heading for the door. "I have no choice but to leave you in charge of the PTS investigation here. Try to do something right for a change."
 Langdon's first guess is a Semitic, but now I'm not so sure . "Probably ancient," Teabing offered. "Nekkudot?" Sophie inquired. "I don't know. Most primary Semitics include nekkudot. This has none."
 Langdon was still hovering over the script . "A Sephardic transliteration, perhaps...?" Teabing could bear it no longer . "Perhaps if I just..." Reaching over, he edged the box away from Langdon and pulled it toward himself .
 Sophie Neveu was light-years out of her league . Langdon said he thought he'd seen something  like this before . Sophie asked to see the box her grandfather made . She said, "Might I have a  look at the box my grandfather made?"
 Bill Gates had returned to his alma mater to lend to the museum one of his priceless acquisitions — eighteen sheets of paper he had recently purchased at auction from the Armand  Hammar Estate . The author of the pages — Leonardo da Vinci.
 Leonardo's Codex Leicester is one of Leonardo's most fascinating notebooks . Langdon would never forget his reaction after waiting in line and finally viewing the priceless parchment . The pages were unintelligible. Despite being beautifully preserved and  meticulously preserved, the codex looked like gibberish .
 Langdon had been so eager to peruse some of the great thinker's ideas that he had forgotten one of his artistic talents was an ability to write in a mirrored script that was virtually illegible to anyone other than himself . Historians still debated whether Da Vinci wrote this way simply to amuse himself or to keep people from peering over his shoulder and stealing his ideas .
 Sophie's grandfather couldn't write in reverse, so he always cheated by writing normally and then flipping the paper over and tracing the reversed impression . Sophie's guess was that he had wood-burned normal text into a block of wood and then run the back of the block through a sander until the wood was paper thin .
 Robert Langdon felt the physical world fade away as all of his thoughts converged on Sauniere's mirror-image poem . Langdon read the verse slowly. An ancient word of wisdom frees this scroll... and helps us keep her scatter' d family whole .
 For centuries, iambic pentameter  had been a preferred poetic meter of outspoken literati across the globe . Langdon had come across this meter often over the years while researching secret societies across Europe . The roots of the meter were deeply pagan .
 The Priory, like many European secret societies at odds with the Church, had considered English the only European pure language for centuries . Unlike French, Spanish, and Italian, which were rooted in Latin — the tongue of the Vatican — English was linguistically removed from Rome's propaganda machine .
 "The password," Sophie said, "appears to have something to do with the Templars" Langdon: "A headstone praised by Templars is the key" "We have no idea where Magdalene's tomb is," Sophie says .
 The Atbash Cipher was a simple substitution code based on the twenty-two-letter Hebrew alphabet . In Atbash, the first letter was substituted by the  last letter, the second letter by the next to last letter . Text encrypted with Atbash is found throughout  the Kabbala, the Dead Sea Scrolls, and even the Old Testament .
 Sophie sensed from the grim look on Langdon's face that finding the Templar headstone would be no small feat . Atbash is the key, Sophie thought, but we don't have a door . Teabing heaved a frustrated sigh and shook his head . He stood up and headed for the back of the plane .
 Sophie had solved enough of her grandfather's treasure hunting to know that Jacques Sauniere did not give up his secrets easily . She feared that what they eventually found inside this cryptex would not be as simple as "a map to the Holy Grail"
 Fache motioned to another officer, who approached with handcuffs, and the traffic controller felt a surge of terror . "Wait!" the controller heard himself whimper at the sight of the handcuffs . Fache waved off the man with the cuffs . "Is Biggin Hill his destination tonight?" the controller said honestly .
 Fache checked his watch and gazed out at the scattering of jets parked in front of the terminal . "If  they're going to Biggin Hill, how long until they land?" The controller fumbled through his records . "It's a short flight. His plane could be on the ground  around six-thirty... 15 minutes from now." Fache frowned and turned to one of his men . "Get a transport up here. I'm going to London. And 
 Langdon's head still throbbed where he'd been hit by the monk . Teabing was still in the back of the plane . Langdon decided to take advantage of the moment alone with Sophie to tell her something that had been on his mind . "I think I know part of the reason why your grandfather conspired to put us together," Langdon said .
 Sophie told Langdon she saw something that convinced her grandfather was in a secret society . Langdon asked Sophie to tell him what she saw . "I don't  know what I saw," Sophie said . "It doesn't take the brains of Da Vinci to guess what you saw," he said .
 Langdon strained to hide his emotion, and yet he could not believe what he was hearing . Sophie unwittingly witnessed a two-thousand-year-old sacred ceremony . "Masks?" he asked,  keeping his voice calm . "Yes. Identical masks. White on the women. Black on the men."
 Historically, intercourse was the act through which male and female experienced God . The ancients believed that the male was spiritually complete until he had carnal knowledge of the sacred feminine . Physical union with the female remained the sole means through which man could become spiritually complete .
 The Hieros Gamos ritual is not a perversion, it's a deeply sacrosanct ceremony, Langdon says . Sex begot new life — the ultimate miracle — and miracles could agicallybe performed only by a god . Intercourse was the revered union of the two halves of the human spirit .
 Early Jews believed that the Holy of Holies in Solomon's Temple housed not only God but His powerful female equal, Shekinah . Men seeking spiritual wholeness came to the Temple to visit priestesses — or hierodules — with  them they made love and experienced the divine through physical union .
 For obvious reasons,  the early Church worked hard to demonize sex and recast it as a disgusting and sinful act . Other major religions did the same, Langdon said . Langdon sensed she was starting to understand her grandfather better . Ironically, he had made this point in a class lecture earlier this semester .
 Langdon decided not to shock his students with the fact that more than a dozen secret societies still practiced sex rites . Tom Cruise's character in the film Eyes Wide Shut discovered this the hard way when he sneaked into a private gathering of ultraelite Manhattanites only to find himself witnessing Hieros Gamos .
 Langdon: "The next time you find yourself with a woman, look in your heart and see if you cannot approach icating sex as a mystical, spiritual act" Sophie felt a new regret well within her. She pictured the stacks of unopened letters her grandfather had sent her .
 Sophie felt herself drifting back to the woods outside her grandfather's Normandy chateau . She watched as the strangers swayed and chanted by flickering orange candles . Sophie inched down the stone staircase, one step at a time, into the basement grotto .
 The women lowered their orbs, and everyone rocked back and forth as if in a trance . They were revering something in the center of the circle . What are they looking at? The voices accelerated now. Louder. Faster. "The woman whom you behold is love!" The men responded .
 The stone walls of the grotto imprisoned Sophie as the chanting rose to a fever pitch . Sophie wanted to turn and run, but she couldn't . The circle of participants seemed almost to be singing now, the noise rising in crescendo to a frenzy . With a sudden roar, the entire room seemed to erupt in climax . She suddenly realized she was quietly sobbing .
 Father Aringarosa walked to the cockpit and said he needed to change destinations . "I have to get to London immediately," he said . "What kind of priest carries that kind of cash?" the pilot asked . "It's not a question of money, Father, there are other issues," he replied .
 Bishop Aringarosa felt weak as he steadied himself against the cockpit door . "This is a matter of life or death. You must help me. I need to get to London." Pilot eyed the bishop's gold ring . "I could not possibly part with this," pilot said .
 Sophie Neveu was still shaken from recounting her experience of Hieros Gamos . Langdon was amazed to have heard it . Not only had Sophie witnessed the full-blown ritual, her own grandfather had been the celebrant... the Grand Master of the Priory of Sion .
 Langdon popped a Coke and turned to the window, his thoughts awash with images of secret rituals and unbroken codes . The dissolving veil of night seemed to evaporate quickly, and as Langdon watched the transformation, he saw a shimmering ocean stretch out beneath them beneath them .
 Langdon willed the light of day to bring with it a second kind of illumination, but the lighter it became outside, the further he felt from the truth . Langdon heard the rhythms of iambic pentameter and chanting, Hieros Gamos and sacred rites, resonating with the rumble of the jet .
 During the Inquisition, the Church accused the Knights Templar of secretly performing rituals in which they prayed to a carved stone head . Langdon explained to Sophie that Baphomet was a pagan fertility god associated with the creative force of reproduction . "Baphomet" was represented as that of a ram or goat, a common symbol of procreation .
 The modern belief in a homed devil known as Satan could be traced back to Baphomet and the Church's attempts to recast the horned fertility god as a symbol of evil . Traditional American Thanksgiving tables still bore pagan fertility symbols . The cornucopia or "horn of plenty" was a tribute to Baphomet's fertility .
 Teabing had just finished writing out the entire twenty-two-letter Hebrew alphabet — alef-beit — from memory . Sophie pointed to the dials on the cryptex: "Baphomet has eight letters. We only have room  for five."
 When we write the word Baphomet using the Hebrew alphabet, it will lose its three vowels in translation . "There's an easier way," Sophie said, taking the pen from Teabing . "It works for all reflectional   substitution ciphers, including the Atbash," he said .
 Langdon felt a rising thrill that he imagined must have rivaled the thrill felt by early scholars when they first used the Atbash Cipher to decrypt the now famous Mystery of Sheshach . For years, religious scholars had been baffled by biblical references  to a city called Sheschach . The city did not appear on any map nor in any other documents, and yet it was mentioned repeatedly in the Book of Jeremiah .
 The decryption process was simple. Sheshach, in Hebrew, was spelled: Sh-Sh-K. When placed in the substitution matrix, it became B-B-L . In Hebrew, Baphomet in Hebrew without the vowels reads: B-P-V-M-Th .
 Teabing was grinning like a schoolboy at Christmas . "And the Atbash Cipher reveals..." He stopped short. "Good God!" His face went white. Langdon's head snapped up. "What's wrong?" Sophie demanded. "You won't believe this." Langdon didn't recognize it either. "This, my friend, is actually an ancient word of  wisdom."
 Sophie realized Langdon and Teabing had failed to see a serious glitch . "Hold on! This can't be the password," she argued. "The cryptex doesn't have an Sh on the dial" Sophie again looked at the letters, attempting to sound them out. "S...o...f...y...a."
 Sophie felt a wild excitement as she cradled the cryptex and began dialing in the letters . Langdon and Teabing seemed to have stopped breathing as they  looked on . "Remember the vinegar," Langdon whispered with fearful exhilaration, "Be careful."
 Sophie knew that if this cryptex were like those she had opened in her youth, all she would need to do is grip the cylinder at both ends, just beyond the dials, and pull, applying slow, steady pressure . Sophie's outward force on the ends would be transferred to a hinged lever, which would pivot downward into the cavity and apply pressure to the glass vial, eventually shattering it if she pulled too hard . Sophie had almost forgotten what they expected to find inside
 This is the Priory keystone . According to Teabing, it contained a map to the Holy Grail,  unveiling the tomb of Mary Magdalene and the Sangreal treasure... the ultimate treasure trove of  secret truth .
 Sophie unrolled the scroll and revealed what was wrapped inside . Langdon's grandfather was a pitiless architect . On the table sat a second cryptex, made of black onyx, nested within the first . Sauniere's passion for dualism. Black nested within white .
 Langdon felt the web of symbolism stretching onward . Reaching over, Langdon lifted the smaller cryptex . It looked identical to the first, except half the  size and black . Written in ornate penmanship was another four-line verse .
 The remainder of the poem clearly implied that the password for opening the second cryptex could be found by visiting this knight's tomb, somewhere in the city . Langdon turned excitedly to Teabing . "Do you have any idea what knight this poem is referring to?" he asked . "Not the foggiest," he replied .
 A single bullet was buried in the floor; a paper  with symbols scrawled on it along with the words blade and chalice . PTS had told Collet that it was associated with conservative Catholic group Opus Dei, which had caused a stir recently when a news program exposed their aggressive recruiting practices in Paris .
 Collet found notations scrawled in English describing a cathedral's long hollow nave as a secret pagan tribute to a woman's womb . "Kind of makes you want to go back to church," the examiner said . Collet picked up the second evidence bag, a photo of a Gothic cathedral's entrance .
 Through the plastic, Collet could see a large glossy photograph of what appeared to be an old document . "What's this?" Collet asked . "No idea. He's got copies of it all over the place, so I bagged it," Collet said .
 PRIEURE DE SIGN— LES NAUTONIERS/GRAND MASTERS . The switchboard has an urgent call for Captain  Prieure de Sion, but they can't reach him? Collet wondered. "Lieutenant?" Another agent stuck his head in. "Will you take it?"
 Collet returned to the kitchen and took the call . The banker's refined accent did little to mask the tension in his voice . For a moment, Collet thought he recognized the timbre of the man's voice, but he couldn't quite place it . The revelation made him gasp .
 The keystone has been found in the bank's president, Andre Vernet, who is involved in the hunt for the missing person . Lieutenant Collet calls Interpol and requests every shred of information they can find on the bank . Collet pondered the implications of this bizarre development and called Vernet .
 Langdon and Sophie looked on as Teabing got up and went to the far side of the cabin to reveal a discreetly hidden wall safe . He dialed in the combination, opened the safe, and extracted two passports . "Documentation for Rimy and myself." He then removed a thick ishlystack of fifty-pound notes . Sophie looked leery .
 Langdon looked amazed . "And the official will accept?" "Not from anyone, they won't, but these people all know me. I'm not an arms dealer, for heaven's sake." Teabing smiled . "Membership has its privileges."
 Teabing held up his right hand and feigned a courtroom oath . "Your honor, forgive an eccentric old knight his foolish prejudice for the British court system," he said . Langdon looked incredulous, "Coming from you, Leigh, that just might fly."
 Langdon: "I guess Fache still thinks I'm his man." Sophie: "Or he is too deep into this to admit his error. Must be one hell of a gas leak" The landing gear descended with a clunk and the plane was parked in front of the terminal .
 Teabing sensed that if they were to have any chance of postponing confrontation with the British authorities long enough to find the Grail, bold action had to be taken . Langdon: "If we pull up now, by the time we get clearance anywhere else, our welcoming party will include army tanks"
 Sir Leigh Teabing paid Biggin Hill not only for a private hangar but a "per landing fee" for his frequent arrivals and departures . Usually, the airfield had advance warning of his schedule and was able to follow a strict protocol for his arrival .
 Customs agents accepted large tips from Teabing in exchange for turning a blind eye to the transport of harmless organics — mostly luxury foods — French escargots, a  particularly ripe unprocessed Roquefort, certain fruits . Edwards's nerves felt frayed now as he watched the jet coming in .
 British police did not generally carry weapons, but the gravity of the situation had brought an armed response team . Eight policemen with handguns stood just inside the terminal building, awaiting the moment when the plane's engines powered down . A runway attendant would place safety wedges under the tires so the plane could no longer move .
 The plane coasted calmly past the access lane and continued on toward Teabing's hangar in the distance . Instead of braking and turning into the terminal, the jet coasted past  access lane . The convoy of police was still a good five hundred yards away . The police cars finally arrived and skidded to a stop outside the gaping hangar door .
 Hawker's engines were still roaring as the jet finished its usual rotation inside the hangar . As the plane completed its 180-degree  turn and rolled toward the front of the hangar, Edwards could see the pilot's face . The pilot brought the plane to a final stop, and powered down the engines .
 Simon Edwards stepped forward, swallowing the frog in his throat . "Good morning, sir. I apologize for the confusion. We've had a gas leak and your pilot said he was coming to the terminal." "I'm late for an appointment. Thought I'd come over for a tune-up."
 Teabing's manservant Remy appeared in the doorway at the top of the stairs . "I'm afraid we cannot let you leave," the chief inspector said . "Is this one of  those hidden camera programs? Jolly good!" The chief inspector never flinched. "This is serious, sir. The French police claim you also may have been hostage onboard."
 The Kent chief inspector offered Simon Edwards a chance to inspect the plane . "I will look myself," Simon Edwards replied . "No you won't, Inspector. This is private property and until you have a  search warrant, you will stay off my plane"
 The Kent chief inspector felt only distaste for Leigh Teabing as the man hobbled around him in defiance . "My lawyers will fricassee your testicles for breakfast. And if you dare board my plane without a warrant, your spleen will follow."
 Kent chief inspector felt certain his career would be far better served by finding out what it was on this plane that Teabing seemed  so intent on hiding . "Inspector, this is your last warning. Do not even think of boarding that  plane. You will regret it."
 Kent chief inspector found no traces of anyone hiding... much less multiple individuals . Leigh Teabing and his manservant were now under gunpoint near the limousine . "Let them go," the inspector ordered . "You can expect a call from my lawyers. And for future reference, the French police cannot be trusted."
 Langdon and Sophie crouched on the floor beside the bound and gagged albino . Moments earlier, as the Hawker taxied into the deserted hangar, Remy had popped the hatch as the plane jolted to a stop halfway through its turn . With the police closing in fast, Langdon dragged the monk down the gangway to ground level and out of sight behind the limousine .
 Sophie and Langdon sat in the back of the limo with Teabing . The Brit gave them both a roguish smile and opened the cabinet on the bar . "Could  I offer you a drink? Some nibblies? Crisps? Nuts? Seltzer?" Sophie fished in her pocket and pulled out the black cryptex .
 Sophie unwrapped the vellum and handed the sheet to Langdon . Langdon had read the poem several times onboard the jet, but he had been unable to extract  any specific location . He processed the words slowly and carefully,  hoping the pentametric rhythms would reveal a clearer meaning now on the ground .
 The poem's final reference — Rosy flesh and seeded womb — was a clear allusion to Mary Magdalene, the Rose who bore the seed of Jesus . Despite the apparent straightforwardness of the verse, Langdon still had no idea who this knight  was or where he was buried .
 Langdon thought of the notorious Templar round-up in 1307 when Pope Clement killed and interred hundreds of Knights Templar . Teabing laughed loudly. "Oh, that's rich. Think again. Consider the dynamic between the Church and the Knights Templar."
 The Temple Church was built in London by the Priory's military arm — the Knights Templar themselves . Langdon had never actually visited the Temple Church, although he'd come across numerous references in his Priory research . Tales abounded of knights performing strange, secretive rituals within the  Temple Church's unusual sanctuary .
 Langdon realized how close they really were . If the missing orb revealed the password, they would be able to open the second cryptex . Sophie eyed Teabing, "What about the rest of the poem?" The historian's mirthful air faded, "I'm not sure."
 A five-letter word that speaks of the Grail? Langdon eyed the poem again . He had a hard time imagining what they might find inside . The fact that the word was eluding a specialist like Leigh Teabing signified to Langdon that it was no ordinary Grail reference .
 Sophie turned to Langdon now, her voice quiet. "Robert, nobody knows you and I are in England." Langdon realized she was right. The Kent police would tell Fache the plane was empty, and Fache would have to assume they were still in France . Fache could easily be pan of this plot .
 Fache is religions, and he is intent on pinning these murders on                 me . Langdon felt an unexpected flicker of attraction between them . "I'm a lot more fun when I've slept," Langdon said . "Your grandfather didn't even know me," Sophie said .
 In the distance, the skyline of London began to materialize through the dawn drizzle . Once dominated by Big Ben and Tower Bridge, the horizon now bowed to the Millennium Eye . Langdon felt a squeeze on his knee, pulling him back, and Sophie's green eyes were on him . "Somehow I feel closer to my grandfather tonight than I have in years," Sophie said .
 "Your grandfather gave the cryptex to you, and you should do with it what your instinct tells you he would want done," Langdon said . "I'm asking for your opinion. You obviously wrote something in that manuscript that made my grandfather trust your judgment," he said . Langdon: "Maybe he wanted to tell me I have it all wrong."
 Langdon: "There's an enormous difference between hypothetically discussing an alternate history of Christ, and presenting to the world thousands of ancient documents as scientific evidence that the New Testament is false testimony" "But you told me the New Testament is based on fabrications." Langdon smiled. "Sophie, every faith in the world is based . on fabrication. That is the definition of faith — acceptance of that which we imagine to be true, that which .
 The Bible represents a fundamental guidepost for millions of people on the planet, in much  the Koran, Torah, and Pali Canon offer guidance to people of other religions . Sophie: "I'm opposed to the destruction of documents, and I would love to see religious scholars have more information to ponder the exceptional life of Jesus Christ"
 Langdon's Mickey Mouse wristwatch read almost seven-thirty when he emerged from the Jaguar limousine onto Inner Temple Lane with Sophie and Teabing . The threesome wound through a  maze of buildings to a small courtyard outside the Temple Church . Langdon: "Religious allegory has become apart of the fabric of reality."
 The Temple Church was consecrated on the tenth of February in 1 185 by Heraclius, Patriarch of Jerusalem . It survived eight centuries of political turmoil, the Great Fire of London, and the First World War, only to be heavily damaged by Luftwaffe incendiary bombs in 1940 .
 The church's entryway was a recessed stone niche inside which stood a large wooden door . To the left of the door, looking entirely out of place, hung a bulletin board covered with concert schedules and religious service announcements . Father Harvey Knowles had his own keys and was not due for another couple of hours .
 The sign on the door clearly stated that the church did not open until nine-thirty on Saturday . The knocking was probably a curious tourist or indigent . The altar boy kept vacuuming, but the knocking continued . Suddenly, the knocking turned to a forceful banging, as if someone were hitting the door .
 The altar boy had no idea how to respond to the man . Sir Christopher Wren was the Temple Church's most famous benefactor . He had made possible all the restorations following damage caused by the Great Fire . "Urn... an honor to meet you?" The man on crutches frowned. "Good thing you're not in sales."
 Every year Sir Christopher Wren's descendants bring a pinch of the old man's ashes to scatter in the Temple sanctuary . It is part of his  last will and testament. Nobody is particularly happy about making the trip, but what can we do?" The altar boy had been here a couple of years but had never heard of this custom .
 The altar boy hesitated, well acquainted with Father Knowles' deep observance of church tradition... and, more importantly, with his foul temper when anything cast this time-honored shrine in anything but favorable light . After all, they said it would only take a minute. What harm could it do? When the altar boy stepped aside to let the three people pass, he could have sworn Mr. Wren looked just as bewildered by all of this
 "Oxford Theatre Club. They still talk of my Julius Caesar. I'm certain nobody has ever performed the first scene of Act Three with more dedication." Langdon cringed. "I thought Caesar was dead in that scene." Teabing smirked. "Yes, I was brilliant, I tell you."
 "The Knights Templar were warriors," Teabing reminded, the sound of his aluminum crutches echoing in this reverberant space . Langdon agreed, even from here, the walls looked unusually robust . "The Templars invented the concept of modern banking. They were the original ATMs."
 The Master of the Temple, some claim, held more influence than the king  himself . He and his successors actually held the Parliamentary chair of Primus Baro Angiae . Langdon was surprised. "First Baron of the Realm?" Teabing nodded .
 Langdon felt shaky as he inched deeper into the circular room . "Theater in the round," Langdon whispered . Teabing raised a crutch, pointing toward the far left of the room and then to the far right . Langdon  had already seen the carvings of ten stone stone knights .
 Remy Legaludec finds a trussed monk in the back of his limousine in a rubbish-strewn alley near Temple Church in London . The monk emerges from a prayer-like trance, his red eyes more curious than fearful . Remy was impressed with this trussed man's ability to stay calm .
 Remy found a standard service wine-opener and flicked open the sharp blade . The knife was usually employed to slice the lead foil from corks on fine bottles of wine . Remy smiled and moved toward the back of the limousine . The monk recoiled, struggling against his bonds .
 Silas felt the biting warmth spreading across his back and shoulders and could picture his own blood, spilling out over his flesh . A piercing pain cut through his thighs now, and he felt the onset of that familiar undertow of disorientation — the body's defense mechanism .
 A mound of shredded duct tape lay on the floor beside the bloodless knife . Silas felt the pain you feel is the blood rushing into your muscles . The vodka tasted terrible, but he drank it, feeling grateful . "I had wanted to free you earlier," the servant apologized, "but it was impossible"
 "I wish I had that kind of power. No, I am not the Teacher. Like you, I serve him. But the Teacher speaks highly of you." Remy . Silas was amazed. "I don't understand. If you work for the Teacher, why did Langdon bring the keystone to your home?" "Not my home. The odds..."
 Captain Fache descended from his transport plane at Biggin Hill and listened in disbelief to the chief inspector's account of what had happened in Teabing's hangar . "I searched the plane myself," the inspector insisted, "and there was no one inside" Fache needed only sixty seconds to locate an anomalous smear of blood on the pavement near where the limousine had been parked .
 Police captain Fache had a full confession, including a description of the bound albino monk . In addition, he learned that the pilot saw Langdon and Sophie leave something behind in Teabing's safe, a wooden box of some sort . Although the pilot denied knowing what was in the box, he admitted it had been the focus of Langdon's full attention .
 Bishop Aringarosa is en route to London . Fache's phone rang, and he wished for a moment's peace . Everyone was now on the lookout for a black Jaguar limousine . The Kent police's blunder could cost me dearly .
 The poem's reference to an "orb" conjured images of the night in her grandfather's basement . Sophie wondered if the ritual had been performed in this very sanctuary . The circular room seemed custom-built for such a pagan rite. A stone pew encircled a bare expanse of floor in the middle .
 Sophie imagined this chamber at night, filled with masked people chanting by torchlight, all witnessing a "sacred communion" in the center of the  room . The oddity seemed to have no relevance to the missing orb . Sophie noted that two of the knights wore tunics over their armor, while the other three wore ankle-length robes .
 Two knights clutched swords, two prayed, and one had  his arms at his side . Sophie shrugged, having seen no  hint anywhere of a conspicuously absent orb . The men were moving slowly, still only at the third knight, apparently having no luck either .
 The tomb was a sealed stone casket, not a knight lying in the open air . The casket was trapezoidal, tapered at the feet, widening toward the top, with a peaked lid . "Robert? Leigh?" she called, her voice echoing around the chamber . "We seem to be missing an entire knight."
 The coffin looks like it was carved at the same time and by the same sculptor as the other nine tombs . "Why is this knight in a casket rather than in the open?" Teabing shook his head. "One of this church's mysteries. To the best of my knowledge, nobody has ever found any explanation for it."
 Langdon spoke his lines with Teabing-esque believability . "I believe you and I met in passing last year. Father Knowles failed to formally introduce us, but I recognized your face as we came in," Langdon said . "Perhaps that is because Mr. Wren comes here every year!" The altar boy shook his head. "Tombs contain bodies. These are effigies. Stone tributes to real men."
 This was believed to be a crypt but was revealed as nothing of the  sort during the 1950 renovation . "Can I see the poem again?" Sophie pulled the cryptex from her pocket and carefully handed it to him . Langdon unwrapped the vellum and examined the poem .
 Langdon: "Yes, the poem definitely references a tomb. Not an effigy." "Could the poem be wrong?" Teabing asked . "Could Jacques Sauniere have made the same mistake I just did?" Langdon considered it and shook his head . "We must be missing something!"
 Some pathetic sod wandered in off the street, looking for directions to some wedding from the  looks of it . "I'm sorry," he called out, passing a large pillar, "we're closed" A flurry of cloth ruffled behind him, a powerful hand clamping hard over his mouth from behind, muffling his scream . The prim man in the tuxedo calmly produced a very small revolver, which he aimed directly at the boy's forehead . "Listen carefully
 The next thing the boy knew, he was sprinting across the outside courtyard with no plans of                 stopping until his legs gave out . "Your only concern," Silas said calmly, "is that I leave here with the keystone"
 Langdon held the black cryptex before him, waving it back and forth like a matador tempting a dumb animal . Silas pushed Sophie away from him and aimed the gun at Langdon, moving toward him . Langdon raised the cryptex high over his head, threatening to smash it on the floor .
 Langdon held the cryptex high over his head and stared into Silas's gun . The monk's red eyes filled with anger and frustration, and Remy tightened with fear that Silas might actually shoot Langdon . The cryptex was to be Remy's ticket to freedom and wealth .
 Remy's association with Sir Leigh Teabing — the preeminent Grail historian on  earth — was going to bring Remy everything he had ever dreamed of in life . Remy was the  only one who knew the Teacher's identity . Since then, every moment he had spent inside Chateau Villette had been leading him to this very instant .
 The Teacher was resolute. "Silas served us well with the four Priory members. He will recover the  keystone. You must remain anonymous. If others see you, they will need to be eliminated, and there has been enough killing already. Do not reveal your face." My face will change, Remy thought .
 Remy didn't give a damn about the Grail, except that the Teacher refused to pay him until it was found . Remy felt giddy every time he thought of the money he soon would have . The gun in his hand was a concealable, small-caliber, J-  frame Medusa .
 Sir Leigh Teabing's heart practically stalled to see Remy aiming a gun at him . Remy circled behind him and rammed the pistol barrel into his back, high and on the left,  directly behind his heart . "Arrogant fools," Remy sneered. "Have you not noticed that I have been listening tonight as you discussed these poems?"
 "Why do you want the Grail?" Langdon demanded . "To destroy it? Before the End of Days?" Remy called to the monk . "I would rather break it," Langdon said, "than see it in the wrong hands"
 "I am not playing games," Remy said . "The next one is in his back. Hand the keystone to Silas." Langdon reluctantly held out the cryptex . Silas stepped forward and took it, his red eyes gleaming with the self-satisfaction of vengeance .
 Andre Vernet, according to official records, was a model citizen . He was educated at prep school and the Sorbonne, he had a cum laude degree in international finance . Interpol said Vernet's name appeared in the newspapers from time to time, but always in a positive light .
 The only red flag tonight from Interpol had been a set of fingerprints that apparently belonged to Teabing's servant . The chief PTS examiner was reading the report in a comfortable chair across the  room . He glanced up, chuckling, "Peanut allergy"
 An unsuspecting patron had died of anaphylactic shock at  the table after a single bite . "Legaludec is probably a live-in here to avoid getting picked up." The examiner looked amused. "His lucky night." Collet sighed. "All right, you better forward this info to Captain Fache."
 Lieutenant Collet climbed the ladder's steep incline to the soaring hayloft . The ladder was an antique tapered design and narrowed as Collet ascended . From down here, the loft appeared to be a deserted platform, and yet admittedly most of it was invisible from this line of sight .
 Collet squinted through the dim light toward the far wall . Nestled against the far  wall sat an elaborate computer workstation . "It's a listening post," the PTS agent said . "Very advanced surveillance," the agent nodded .
 "Here's a complete system," the agent says, handing out a small assembly . Dangling off the contraption was a foot-long wire with a stamp-sized piece of  wafer-thin foil stuck on the end . Collet knew them well . These foil-like, photocell microphones had been an enormous breakthrough .
 The agent signaled to an insulated wire that ran out of the back of the computer, up the wall, through a hole in the barn roof . "Reception method?" Collet asked . "Simple radio wave. Small antenna on the roof." Collet knew these recording systems were generally placed in offices .
 Langdon felt utterly spent as he and Sophie hurdled a turnstile at Temple tube station and dashed deep into the grimy labyrinth of tunnels and platforms . The guilt ripped through him as he followed Sophie to the westbound District and Circle Line platform, where she hurried to call the police .
 Sophie would make Remy and Silas fugitives of the London police, forcing them into hiding or, better yet, catching them . Langdon had not initially agreed with this idea, but as they had hatched their plan, Sophie's logic began to make sense .
 Sophie Neveu reported a kidnapping to the London police . Langdon's plan was less certain — to take the tube to nearby King's College, which was renowned for its electronic theological database . He wondered what the database would have to say about "a knight a Pope interred"
 Sophie's connection to the detective seemed to be taking forever . She wondered how many Jaguar stretch limos there could be in London . She could hear the line  clicking and buzzing, as if she was being transferred . Finally a man came on the line: "Agent Neveu?" Sophie was speechless .
 Fache was not a man who apologized for anything . Sophie heard what sounded like drilling in the background . He knows I'm in London? What else does Fache know? Sophie heard an odd clicking on the line . "Are you tracing this call,  Captain?" Fache's voice was firm now .
 A warm wind was now pushing through the station as a train approached with a low rumble . Sophie had every intention of being on it. Langdon apparently had the same idea . Bezu Fache bellowed as the train thundered into the station . Sophie hung up and dashed with Langdon onto the train .
 Fache found a stone cylinder with lettered dials spelling SOFIA inside it . The five dials were arranged to spell the word . Fache set it back in the box and gazed absently out the window at the hangar . The sound of his phone shook him from his daydream .
 Robert Langdon and Sophie had extracted a small wooden box from the bank and then persuaded Vernet to help them escape . "The contents of the box are immaterial," Vernet fired back . "I am concerned with the reputation of my bank. We have never had a robbery. Ever," he said .
 The key and password  were obviously ill-gotten." "Mr. Vernet, my men have done some checking into your background and your interests," the agent said . "I give you my word as commanding officer of the Police Judiciaire that your  box, along with your bank's reputation, are in the safest of hands."
 Jacques Sauniere was being bugged . He had noticed it immediately . How could anyone possibly manage to bug these prominent people? "Have you heard any of the audio files?" "A few. Here's one of the most recent." The speakers crackled to life .
 Collet was amazed when he saw a photocopy of an ancient schematic diagram . Collet's eyes moved to the margins, where someone had scribbled notes on the photocopy in French . The notes were in French and appeared to be ideas outlining how best to insert a  listening device into the knight .
 Silas waited for Remy to finish tying and gagging Leigh Teabing in back with rope they had found in trunk . Remy climbed out of the rear of the limo, walked around, and slid into the driver's seat . "Ferme ta gueule!" Remy shouted over his shoulder at the crumpled figure .
 Silas's cell phone rang, and the Teacher answered excitedly . "I am relieved to hear your voice. This means you are safe," the Teacher said . "Is Remy with you?" Silas was surprised to hear the Teacher use Remy's name . "Yes. Remy freed me."
 Silas sensed anger in the Teacher's voice and was surprised the man was not more understanding . Kidnapping Teabing had not been part of the plan, and deciding what to do with him posed a new problem . "For this reason alone, I will ask Remy to bring me the keystone," the Teacher said .
 Silas handed Remy the phone, sensing it might be the last call Remy Legaludec ever took . The Teacher heaved a sigh, as if what he now had to do was profoundly regrettable . He knew this poor, twisted monk had no idea what fate awaited him now .
 Bishop Aringarosa was blinded by his own desperation . Remy felt pride at having gained the man's trust . He marveled at the Teacher's powers of persuasion . The Teacher said: "Take Silas to the Opus Dei residence hall and drop him off a few streets away . Then drive to St. James's Park. It is adjacent to Parliament and Big Ben .
 King's College's Religion Department boasts 150 years' experience in teaching and research . The Institute in Systematic Theology boasts one of the most electronically advanced religious research libraries in the world . Langdon still felt shaky as he and Sophie came in from the rain .
 Langdon still had not gotten used to these moments of unexpected celebrity . He feared Fache had put him on English television as well, but the librarian's smile suggested otherwise . Langdon shook his head. "I didn't know you were coming," he said. "Neither did we."
 Langdon felt a pang of gloom as he said the name of Sir Leigh Teabing . "We're trying to find a tomb in London," Sophie asked . "It's the tomb of a knight," Langdon said . Gettum looked dubious, "We've got about twenty thousand of them."
 Langdon and Sophie had decided to share just the  first two lines of the poem to an outsider . Compartmentalized cryptography, Sophie had called it "the cryptex" When an intelligence agency intercepted a code containing sensitive data, cryptographers each worked on a discrete section of the code . This way, when they broke it, no single cryptographer  had the entire deciphered message .
 In London lies a knight a Pope interred. His labor's fruit a Holy wrath incurred. Gettum sensed an urgency in the eyes of this famed American scholar, almost as if his finding this tomb quickly were a matter of critical importance .
 Over the past two decades, King's College Research Institute in Systematic Theology had used optical character recognition software in unison with linguistic translation devices to digitize and catalog an enormous collection of texts . Because the massive collection was now in the form of uablybits and bytes rather than physical pages, the data was infinitely more accessible . Gettum typed in a few words: "LONDON, KNIGHT, POPE"
 "We'll get more hits than we want, but it's a good place to start," says Gettum . Dozens of texts appeared, many of them referencing the eighteenth-century British writer Alexander Pope, whose mock-epic poetry apparently contained plenty of references to knights and London .
 This particular search  looked like it was going to return an obscenely large amount of data . Langdon glanced at Sophie Neveu, looking uncertain . This is no scavenger hunt, Gettum sensed . This American had been granted access to the most secure library on  earth — the Vatican Secret Archives .
 Gettum had been a librarian long enough to know  the most common reason people came to London to look for knights . "I can only assume you are on a Grail quest," she said . Langdon and Sophie exchanged startled looks . "Here is everything we know," Sophie Neveu blurts out .
 Langdon asked Pamela Gettum if she could find out who this knight is and where he is buried . She replied, "Might I ask where  this verse came from? And why you are seeking an orb?" Langdon said, "It's a long story and we have very little  time"
 Search for: KNIGHT, LONDON, POPE, TOMB within 100 word proximity of: GRAIL, ROSE, SANGREAL, CHALICE . Gettum: "How long will this take?" Langdon and Sophie said nothing, but this sounded like an eternity to them .
 At Remy's suggestion, Silas had wiped down his gun and disposed of it through a sewer grate . Silas wondered about Teabing, whom Remy had left bound in the back of the limousine . The Briton certainly had to be feeling the pain by now .
 Silas went upstairs to a modest room with a window, where he took off his wet robe and knelt  down to pray in his undergarments . He heard his host come up and lay a tray outside his door . Silas finished his prayers, ate his food, and lay down to sleep .
 St. James's Park is a sea of green in the middle of London . Once enclosed by King Henry VIII and stocked with deer for the hunt, the park is now open to the public . On sunny afternoons, Londoners picnic beneath the willows and feed the pond's resident pelicans .
 The stormy weather had brought instead seagulls from the ocean . Despite the morning fog, the park afforded splendid views of the Houses of Parliament and Big Ben . Gazing across the sloping lawns, past the duck pond and the delicate silhouettes of the weeping willows .
 The Teacher took another drink of cognac and handed the flask to Remy . Remy accepted the bottle gratefully . The warmth in Remy's throat mutated quickly to an uncomfortable heat . Remy could feel himself ascending to a higher station in life . He and the Teacher were truly partners now .
 The swelling in Remy's throat came on like an earthquake, and he lurched against the steering column, grabbing his throat and tasting vomit in his narrowing esophagus . The Teacher reached for the glove box and pulled out the tiny Medusa revolver . For an instant, Remy felt a surge of fear, but the Teacher simply slipped it in his trousers pocket .
 Remy turned to see the Teacher sitting calmly beside him staring straight ahead out of the windshield . Remy's eyesight blurred, and he gasped for breath . Whether the Teacher had intended to kill Remy all along or whether it had been Remy's actions in the Temple Church that had made the Teacher lose faith, Remy would never know .
 The Teacher feared all along that Remy might need to be eliminated when  the mission was complete, but by brazenly showing himself in the Temple Church, Remy had  accelerated the necessity dramatically . Robert Langdon's unexpected visit to Chateau Villette had  brought the Teacher both a fortuitous windfall and an intricate dilemma .
 Nobody could incriminate the Teacher unless Remy talked, and that was no longer a concern . The police will have no idea what happened... and no living witness left to tell them . Minutes later, the Teacher was crossing St. James's Park . Gazing triumphantly across the park, he could see his destination .
 You seek the orb that ought to be on his tomb... not one that was already there . The Teacher vaguely recalled photos of the famous tomb and, in particular, its most distinguishing feature was a magnificent orb . The presence of the orb seemed both encouraging and troubling to the Teacher .
 Bishop Aringarosa arrives at Biggin Hill Executive Airport in the rain . He had hoped to be greeted by Captain Fache . Instead, a young British police officer approached with an umbrella . He suggested I  take you to Scotland Yard, he said .
 The Opus Dei Centre in London is located at 5 Orme Court . Pamela Gettum was in the adjoining room, preparing hot drinks . Langdon and Sophie had inquired if there might be some coffee brewing alongside the tea . The computer pinged happily with the answer .
 Langdon and Sophie sat patiently in front of the screen and waited through two dubious returns . When the computer pinged again, though, the offering was unexpected . DIE OPERN VON RICHARD WAGNER was a well-known Freemason .
 The computer will display your keyword hits along with mono prelogs and triple postlogs for context . Langdon had no idea what she had just said, but he clicked anyway . The computer returned several more Grail references, including a text about troubadours .
 Langdon knew it was no coincidence  that the word minstrel and minister shared an etymological root . The troubadours were the  traveling servants or "ministers" of the Church of Mary Magdalene, using music to disseminate the  story of the sacred feminine among the common folk .
 Langdon often wondered how many modern card players had any clue that their four suits — spades, hearts, clubs, diamonds — were Grail-related symbols that came directly from Tarot's four suits of swords, cups, scepters, and pentacles .
 Langdon had his own qualms about the newly knighted Sir Mick Jagger, but this hardly seemed the moment to debate the politics of modern British knighthood . Langdon: "I guess 'modern' is a relative term," Sophie called to Gettum, "It's an old book about Sir Isaac Newton."
 Langdon: "Newton is buried in London. What more could we want?" Sophie: "How about a knight a Pope interred? You heard Ms. Gettum. Newton was not buried by a Catholic Pope." Langdon reached for the mouse and clicked on the  "Pope" hyperlink .
 Silas had no idea what had awoken him or how long he had been asleep . He listened to the quiet breathing of the Opus Dei residence hall, the stillness textured only by the soft murmurs of someone praying in a room below him .
 Silas reacted on instinct, surging across the room and sliding to a stop just behind the door . The first police officer stormed through, swinging his gun left then right at what appeared to be an empty room . The gun went off, the bullet sailing above Silas's head, just as he connected with the officer's shins, driving his legs out from under him, and sending the man down .
 Silas leapt off the low landing, not seeing the  officer coming the other way until it was too late . The two men collided, Silas's broad, naked shoulder grinding into the man's sternum with crushing force . He drove the officer backward onto the pavement, landing hard on top of him .
 Filled with rage, Silas opened fire at all three officers, their blood spraying . A dark shadow loomed behind, coming out of nowhere . The angry hands that grabbed at his bare .shoulders felt as if they were infused with the power of the devil himself .
 Westminster Abbey is considered neither cathedral nor parish church . Designed in the style of the great cathedrals of Amiens, Chartres, and Canterbury . It bears the classification of royal peculiar, subject only to the Sovereign . Since hosting the coronation of William the Conqueror on Christmas Day in 1066, the dazzling sanctuary has witnessed an endless procession of royal events .
 In London lies a knight a Pope interred . Langdon and Sophie were met by guards  who ushered them through the abbey's newest addition — a large walk-through metal detector . They both passed through without  setting off the alarm and continued to the abbay entrance .
 Gray stone columns ascended like  redwoods into the shadows, arching gracefully over dizzying expanses . Before them, the wide alley of the north transept stretched out like a deep uablycanyon, flanked by sheer cliffs of stained glass . Today, the rain and darkness gave this massive hollow a wraithlike aura . Langdon felt disappointed .
 Langdon wanted to bring the London police with them, but Sophie's fears of who might be involved put a damper on any contact with the authorities . Whoever held the cryptex would have to pay a visit to the tomb to decipher the final clue, Langdon says .
 Langdon couldn't shake the image of Leigh Teabing being held captive, probably tied up in the back of his own limousine . Westminster Abbey was a tangled warren of mausoleums, perimeter chambers, and walk-in burial niches .
 The abbey was laid out in the shape of a giant crucifix . Unlike most churches, it had its entrance on the side, rather than the standard rear of the church via the narthex at the bottom of the nave . One false step through the wrong archway, and a visitor was lost in a labyrinth of passageways .
 Langdon led Sophie to the abbey's nave and pointed her to the tomb of Sir Isaac Newton . The Teacher had been scrutinizing the monument for ten minutes now . Sophie drew a startled breath as she looked down the length of the nave, the full magnitude of the building now visible .
 The Teacher pondered Sauniere's beguiling riddle: You seek the orb that ought to be on his tomb . Massive orb protruding from the face of the pyramid was carved in basso-relievo and depicted all  kinds of heavenly bodies .
 The Teacher's concentration was broken by several approaching tourists . He slipped the cryptex back in his pocket and watched warily as the visitors went to a nearby table, left a donation in the cup, and restocked on the complimentary grave-rubbing supplies set out by the abbey .
 He touched the cryptex in his pocket as if he could  divine the answer from Sauniere's crafted marble . Pacing now near the corner of the choir screen, he took a deep breath and glanced up the long nave . His gaze dropped from the gilded altar down to the bright crimson robe of an abbey docent .
 The Teacher had grown accustomed to dealing with surprises . Langdon and Sophie would eventually decipher the poem's meaning, but this was sooner than he had imagined . Reaching down to his pocket, he touched the second object that gave him his confidence: the                 Medusa revolver .
 The Teacher recalled a small announcement sign he had seen on his way into the abbey . Langdon and Sophie moved slowly down the north aisle, keeping to the shadows behind the ample pillars that separated it from the open nave . The sarcophagus was recessed in a niche, obscured from this oblique angle . The only question now is what to use as bait .
 Langdon and Sophie remained silent as the elaborate nave revealed itself in tantalizing increments... a black-marble sarcophagus... a reclining statue of Newton... two winged boys... a huge pyramid... and... an enormous orb . "Did you know about that?" Sophie said, sounding startled. Langdon shook his head, also surprised. "Those look like constellations carved on it," Sophie said .
 The only link between the planets and the Grail that Langdon could imagine  was the pentacle of Venus . Sophie moved directly to the sarcophagus, but Langdon hung back a few feet, keeping an eye on the abbey around them . "Principia Mathematica, as I remember, has something to do with the gravitation pull of planets," Langdon said .
 The end of Pisces and the beginning of Aquarius was  allegedly the historical marker at which the Priory planned to release the Sangreal documents to the  world . Langdon felt a shiver of potential . Sophie suggested that the timing of the release of the documents might be related to the last line of the poem .
 Jacques Sauniere had proven himself a meticulous code writer, Langdon had to believe that his final code would prove to be crystal clear . Sophie spotted a charcoal pencil on the sarcophagus lid near Newton's foot . A careless tourist had left a charcoal, grave-rubbing charcoal pencil .
 Scrawled on the sarcophagus lid, at Newton's feet, shimmered a barely visible charcoal-pencil  message: I have Teabing. Go through Chapter House,  out south exit, to public garden . Langdon read the words twice, his heart pounding wildly .
 Langdon wished he had some idea about the cryptex password... something with which to negotiate . "I think sending us outside is a show of faith. So  we feel safe," Sophie said . Langdon scowled, "You mean outside, where there are no metal detectors?" Sophie looked dubious .
 Langdon remembered the Chapter House as a huge octagonal hall where the original British Parliament convened in the days before the modern Parliament building was built . Langdon and Sophie were jogging as they passed beneath the sign, moving too quickly to notice that certain areas were closed for renovations .
 Langdon felt the familiar uneasiness he always felt in enclosed spaces . The cloisters looked deserted now, admittedly the abbey's least enticing section . The rain was spitting now, and the walkway was cold and damp with gusts of rain  that blew through the lone pillared wall .
 The Pyx Chamber and St. Faith's Chapel were cordoned off by an official-looking sign . The long, deserted corridor beyond the swag was littered with scaffolding and drop cloths . The entrance to the Chapter House was much farther away, but it was open at the far end of the long hallway .
 The Chapter House was a kind of satellite structure — a freestanding annex at the end of the long hallway to ensure the privacy of the Parliament proceedings housed there . Langdon had forgotten just how large this room was . After the gloomy cloisters, the Chapter House felt like a solarium .
 Robert Langdon and Sophie Neveu were standing in an enormous dead end . The door they had been promised was not there . A lone man who had been standing behind the door looked calm as he aimed a small revolver at them . For a moment Langdon thought he must be dreaming .
 "Please believe," Teabing said, "I never had any intention of your being involved" Langdon and Sophie seemed unable to tear their stunned gazes from the revolver aimed at them . "If I had wanted to harm you, you would be dead by now," he said .
 Teabing: "I am a man of honor, and I vowed in my deepest conscience only to sacrifice those who had agicallybetrayed the Sangreal" Langdon: "What are you talking about?" "What were you talking to?" he asked . "I learned that the Priory had decided not to release the truth after all."
 Sophie felt a fury rising from deep within . Teabing laughed coldly . "Your grandfather sold out to the Church. It is obvious they pressured him to keep the truth quiet." Sophie shook her head. "The Church had no influence on my grandfather!"
 The deaths of your mother, father, grandmother, and brother were not accidental . Sophie was stunned . Langdon shook his head. "My methods are immaterial. The important thing for you to grasp right now is this." Sophie opened her mouth to speak but was unable .
 "Bedtime stories to protect your innocence," Teabing said . "It was a car accident," Sophie stammered, feeling the childhood pain welling inside her . Langdon argued, now visibly riled, "certainly you have no proof that the Church had  anything to do with those deaths"
 Sophie flashed on her grandfather's overprotectiveness, how he never liked to leave her alone when she was young . What did she truly know about the crash that took her family? Only sketchy details. Even the stories in the newspaper had  been vague. An accident? Bedtime stories? Sophie flashed .
 Langdon and Sophie Langdon confronted Teabing . "You suspected he was being manipulated," Langdon said . "So  you murdered him?" Sophie felt only incredulity . "I did not pull the trigger. He was compromised. Now he is free of that pain, released from the shame  caused by his inability to carry out his sacred duty"
 Robert Langdon had given up trying to get his bearings . He knew only one thing mattered now — getting Sophie out of here alive . Langdon could not fathom that Leigh Teabing would be capable of killing them in cold blood .
 Langdon had the uneasy feeling that gunshots in this secluded, thick-walled chamber would go unheard, especially in this rain . The Church murdered Sophie 's family to silence the Priory? Langdon felt certain the modern Church did not murder people. There had to be some other explanation .
 The Grail found us all, and now she is begging to be revealed . Langdon could imagine only one reason Teabing would give it back . "A true knight learns humility in the face of the Grail. He learns to obey the signs placed before him"
 The dials were still in random order, and the cryptex remained locked . Langdon eyed Teabing, "How do you know I won't smash it right now?" "I should have realized your threat to break it in the Temple Church was an empty one," he said . "I cannot help you, Leigh. I have no idea how to open this," Langdon said .
 Teabing: "I risked everything to take the nobler course." Langdon: "Sauniere's fault. Otherwise, I would have  obtained the keystone without complication" Sophie: "Someone so unqualified to hold this knowledge that she required a  Symbologist baby-sitter."
 Teabing had a pretty good idea Langdon was holding valuable Priory information . "I was formulating a plan to extend you a helping hand. One way or another, the keystone was coming to Chateau Villette. The fact that you delivered it into my waiting hands only serves as  proof that my cause is just."
 The Temple Church was the perfect location to steal the keystone from Robert and Sophie, and its apparent relevance to the poem made it a plausible decoy . Remy's orders had been clear — stay out of sight while Silas recovers the keystone . If only Remy had not revealed himself, Teabing thought .
 Silas remained unaware of Teabing's true identity and was easily fooled into taking him from the church and then watching naively as Remy pretended to tie their hostage in the back of the limousine . Remy had proven himself a liability. A simple anonymous tip to the police was all it would take to remove Silas from the picture .
 Teabing's leg braces, crutches, and gun  had set off the metal detector at Westminster Abbey . He presented the flustered guards with an embossed card identifying him as Knight of the Realm . He resisted the urge to reveal how he had implicated Opus Dei in the plot .
 Teabing: "Our paths together could not be more clear. The Grail agicallyhas found us" Sophie: "I will never swear an oath with  my grandfather's murderer. Except an oath that I will see you go to prison."
 Bishop Manuel Aringarosa's body had endured many kinds of pain, and yet the searing heat of the wound in his chest felt profoundly foreign to him . He opened his eyes, trying to see, but the rain on his face blurred his vision . He could feel powerful arms holding him, carrying his limp body like a rag doll .
 Bishop Aringarosa felt himself reel back in time to his modest beginnings, building a small Catholic church in Oviedo . Five months ago, he received devastating news that his life's work was in jeopardy . The Teacher promised me  there would be no killing, and I told you to obey him fully . "I was too eager. Too fearful," he said .
 Bishop Aringarosa had entered Gandolfo's Astronomy Library with his head held high, fully expecting to be lauded by throngs of welcoming hands . But only three people were present, including two high-ranking Italian cardinals .
 Opus Dei will no longer be considered a prelature of the Vatican six months from today, six months after today . The Vatican's Secretariat Council voted unanimously to revoke the Vatican's sanction  of the group . "I beg your pardon?" Bishop Aringarosa asked .
 The Holy See will be disassociating itself from Opus Dei . Bishop Aringarosa was stupefied. "Certainly you cannot be surprised it has come to this," he said. "Ask His Holiness if it was an embarrassment in 1982 when we helped the Vatican Bank!"
 The Vatican will always be grateful for that," the secretariat said, "and yet  there are those who still believe your financial munificence in 1982 is the only reason you were given prelature status in the first place." "That is not true!" The insinuation offended Aringarosa deeply . "Whatever the case, we plan to act in good faith. We are drawing up severance terms"
 Cardinal: "Third-century laws are not workable in today's society" Cardinal: Opus Dei will be given six months to voluntarily break away from Vatican . Bishop Aringarosa: "I refuse!" "And I'll tell him that in person!"
 Bishop Aringarosa had hoped only a handful of Vatican power brokers knew of Opus Dei's impending annulment . Apparently the word was out. "I have ears everywhere, Bishop," the Teacher whispered, "and with these ears I have gained certain knowledge"
 Bishop Aringarosa was unconscious when the doors of St. Mary's Hospital hissed open . The doctor who helped Silas heave the delirious bishop onto a gurney looked gloomy as he felt  Aringarosa's pulse. "He's lost a lot of blood. I am not hopeful."
 Robert Langdon stood beneath the lofty cupola of the deserted Chapter House and stared into the silence of his mind . The Royal Historian's words echoed in the silence . Robert, are you with me, or against me? Langdon knew there was no viable response, and he would be selling out Sophie .
 Langdon's years in the classroom had not imbued him with any skills relevant to handling confrontations at gunpoint . He hoped his focus on the cryptex signaled Teabing that collaboration might be an option, and that his silence signaled Sophie he had not abandoned her .
 The British historian hoped the touch of the Grand Master's cryptex would make Langdon fully grasp the magnitude of its contents . Failure to unlock the keystone would mean the loss of history itself . Langdon feared that discovering the cryptex's elusive password would be his only remaining hope of bartering her release .
 Legend had always portrayed the Grail as a cruel mistress, dancing in the shadows just out of sight, luring you one more step and then evaporating into the mist . The sacred feminine... the chalice... the Rose... the banished Mary Magdalene... the decline of the goddess... the Holy Grail .
 Sir Leigh Teabing had suspected Langdon might hold the key to the Grail . He launched his plan into action on the same night Langdon was scheduled to meet Jacques Sauniere . The Grand Master was summoning Langdon to silence him . The Truth has been silenced long enough!
 Silas's attack would accomplish two goals. It would prevent  Sauniere from persuading Langdon to keep quiet, and it would ensure that once the keystone was  in Teabing's hands, Langdon would be in Paris for recruitment . Arranging the fatal meeting between Sauniere and Silas had been almost too easy .
 The mention of Sophie Neveu's name had been the catalyst . The curator leapt into action. He ordered Silas  to come see him immediately in the safest location Sauniere knew — his Louvre office . Then he phoned Sophie to warn her she might be in danger .
 Langdon says he knows where to look on Newton's tomb . "I think I can find the password!" Teabing's heart soared . Sophie sounded horrified. "Robert, no! You're not going to help him, are you?" Langdon said. "Not until he lets you go."
 "I'm not going anywhere," Sophie declared, her eyes narrowing with rage . "That cryptex was given to me by my grandfather. It is not yours to open." Langdon wheeled, looking fearful. "Sophie, please! You're in danger. I'm trying to help you!" Sophie said, "How? By unveiling the secret my grandfather died trying to protect? He trusted you, Robert."
 Sophie's eyes looked as if they would well with tears, but they did not . "Shoot me if you have to. I am not leaving my grandfather's legacy in your hands." Langdon raised his arm and suspended the cryptex precariously over the floor .
 Langdon and Neveu were nothing but a threat to Teabing now... and to the Grail . As painful as the solution was going to be, he knew he could carry it out with a clean conscience . The only challenge would be to persuade Langdon to set down the keystone .
 The Grail is not mocking you, she is calling out to a worthy soul, Langdon thought . Langdon leapt up, swinging his arm skyward, launching the cryptex . Leigh Teabing did not feel his finger pull the trigger, but the Medusa discharged with a thundering crash .
 The keystone was now vertical, almost airborne, and the bullet exploded in Langdon's feet . Half of Teabing's brain attempted to adjust his aim and fire again in rage . But the more powerful half dragged his eyes upward into the cupola . Time seemed to freeze, morphing into a slow-motion dream .
 The acrid tang of vinegar cut the air, and Teabing felt the cool liquid flowing out through the dials onto his palm . He tried to force the cylinder apart, longing to catch a fleeting glimpse of history before it dissolved forever .
 Sophie stood beside him, aiming the gun down at Teabing . Teabing looked back at the keystone and saw it spelled a five-letter word: APPLE . Langdon reached into the breast pocket of his tweed coat and carefully extracted  a delicate rolled papyrus .
 Langdon unrolled the scroll and looked at it, a knowing smile crossed Langdon's face . "No!" Teabing cried out, trying in vain to stand. "Please! Oh God, please! It's not too late!" As the sound of heavy footsteps thundered down the hall, Langdon rolled the papyrus back in his pocket .
 "It's in Langdon's pocket!" Teabing was screaming like a madman . "Only the worthy find the Grail, Leigh. You  taught me that," says Langdon . The fog made it look like heaven here .
 Silas felt so light that he was sure the wisps would carry him away . From somewhere in the mist, the voice of Manuel Aringarosa whispered to him . Silas's pain at last began to fade, and he knew the bishop was right .
 Sir Leigh Teabing had displayed ingenious precision in formulating a plan that protected his innocence at every turn . Fache suspected the wily historian was setting the stage for his lawyers to plead an insanity defense . The actual surveillance had been carried out by his manservant, Remy — now conveniently dead of an allergic reaction .
 Some of Fache's intended targets received lavish gifts of artwork, others unwittingly bid at auctions in  which Teabing had placed specific lots . Sauniere had received a dinner invitation to Chateau Villette to discuss the possibility of Teabed's funding a new Da Vinci Wing at the Louvre .
 Bishop Aringarosa had longed for Silas to be part of his glorious plan . Last night had been the darkest night of his life . Bezu Fache had questioned the bishop about his apparent connection to a nun who had been murdered in Saint-Sulpice .
 The only way to  stop the horrific chain of events he had helped put in motion was to confess everything to Fache . Teabing had caught wind of Vatican's plans to disassociate itself from Opus Dei . He had chosen Aringarosa as the perfect pawn in his plan .
 The price tag of twenty million euro was paltry when compared with the prize of obtaining the Grail . The Vatican's separation payment to Opus Dei, the finances had worked nicely . Teabing's ultimate insult had  been to demand payment in Vatican bonds, such that if anything went wrong, the investigation would lead to Rome .
 Aringarosa looked at the briefcase filled with bonds and immediately looked away, feeling only  apologetic shame . "I realize no sum could possibly serve as sufficient restitution, and yet, if you could be kind enough to divide the  contents of this briefcase among them... the families of the deceased."
 Captain Bezu Fache has successfully arrested the man responsible for the murder of Robert Langdon and Sophie Neveu . Lieutenant Collet says he suspects Langdon was part of a ruse to lure out the real killer . Fache had a faint smile on his lips as he turned back to Aringarosa .
 Fache asked Aringarosa to explain why he bribed a pilot to change course to London . "I was desperate," he replied . Fache waved off the gesture, gazing out at the city, his thoughts obviously far away . "You've been  so kind," he said .
 Rosslyn Chapel stands seven miles south of Edinburgh, Scotland, on the site of an ancient Mithraic temple . Built by the Knights Templar in 1446, the chapel's geographic coordinates fall precisely on the north-south meridian that runs through Glastonbury . The longitudinal Rose Line is the traditional marker of King Arthur's Isle of Avalon .
 Robert Langdon felt like Alice falling headlong into the rabbit hole . Langdon had fantasized that Sauniere's "Grail map" would be a diagram . But yet the Priory's final secret had been unveiled in the same way . Four explicit lines pointed without a doubt to this very spot .
 Rosslyn Chapel seemed far too obvious a location for the Holy Grail . Ground-penetrating radar revealed the presence of an astonishing subterranean chamber beneath the chapel . Archaeologists petitioned to begin excavations through the bedrock to reach the mysterious chamber . The Rosslyn Trust expressly forbade any excavation of the sacred site .
 Rosslyn had now become a pilgrimage site for mystery seekers . Some claimed they were drawn here by the powerful magnetic field that emanated inexplicably from these coordinates . But most admitted they had come simply to wander the grounds and absorb the lore of the Holy Grail .
 Langdon and Sophie passed the famous west wall of the famous chapel of Solomon's Temple . Inside, both cryptexes had agicallybeen reassembled and nested as they had been found . The papyrus verse was locked safely at its core — minus the shattered vial of vinegar .
 The Knights Templar had designed Rosslyn Chapel as an exact architectural blueprint of Solomon's Temple in Jerusalem . Langdon had to admit, there existed an intriguing symmetry in the idea of  the Templars building a modern Grail repository that echoed the Grail's original hiding place .
 Every surface in the chapel had been carved with symbols — Christian cruciforms, Jewish stars, Masonic seals, Templar crosses, cornucopias, pyramids, astrological signs, plants, vegetables, pentacles, and roses . Langdon felt his eyes reaching across the famous sanctuary and taking it all in .
 Rosslyn Chapel was a shrine to all faiths... to all traditions... and, above all, to nature and the goddess . The sanctuary was empty except for a handful of visitors listening to a young man giving a tour . He was leading them in a well-known route on the floor — an invisible pathway linking six key architectural points within the sanctuary .
 Sophie appeared in the entryway of the chapel, a puzzled look on her face . "I think... I've been here," Sophie said . Langdon was surprised, but Sophie said she hadn't even heard of Rosslyn . "My grandfather must have brought me here when I was very young," Sophie says .
 The two pillars are replicas of the two pillars that stood at the head of Solomon's  Temple . Langdon says they are the most duplicated architectural structures in history . The pillars are called Boaz — or the Mason's Pillar . The other is Jachin, or the Apprentice Pillar .
 Sophie's grandfather's final verse made a direct reference to the Master Masons who adorned Rosslyn with their carved artistic offerings . Langdon had already explained to her about the Templars' historic ties to the modern Masonic secret societies . "I've never been in a Masonic temple," Sophie said, still eyeing the pillars .
 "There's a code here!" Sophie blurts, in sudden revelation . "It's on the ceiling," she said, turning to the right-hand wall . "Not your first visit to Rosslyn, I see," the docent said .
 To this day the Rosslyn Trust offered a generous reward to  anyone who could unveil the secret meaning, but the code remained a mystery . Sophie was moving alone, in a trance, toward the encoded archway . She was recalling her first visit here, a year or so after her family's death .
 Sophie begged, feeling tired. "Can I do the archway code again? That was fun." "I don't know. I have to step outside. How about if you wait in the car?" "You're doing another big person thing?" Sophie asked . "I'll be fast. I promise."
 Sophie thought of the accident, of saying good-bye to her mother and father, her grandmother and baby brother . "Why are you crying, Grand-pere?" He picked her up and held her close . After a few minutes, the symbols got fuzzy and then they disappeared .
 Langdon had been scanning the chapel walls and feeling a rising wariness that a dead end might be looming . Sophie wandered off to look at the code and left  Langdon holding the rosewood box, which contained a Grail map . The poem made reference to a "blade and chalice," which Langdon saw nowhere .
 Langdon knew the young man must be mistaken . Sophie had exited without a word and now wandered down the bluff toward a fieldstone house nearby . Langdon gave a weary laugh . "That's an exceptionally long story." The docent hesitated, his eyes on the box again . "The two boxes may be similar but — "
 Langdon looked out at Sophie on the bluff, then down at the rosewood box in his hand . "I've lived here my whole life. My grandmother raised me in that house," he said . Langdon glimpsed an unimaginable web of connections emerging .
 Langdon's heart pounded as he approached the fieldstone house . The docent recoiled, a look of bewilderment in his olive-green eyes . Langdon: "They died when I was young. In a car accident. My  entire family died that day."
 The woman was clutching a framed photograph of a man and touching her fingertips  to his face with loving sadness . Sophie wanted to run, but she stood transfixed . The woman's fervent gaze never wavered as she set down the photo and approached the screened door .
 Sophie tried to speak but  found she could not even breathe . "Sophie," the woman sobbed, kissing her forehead . "Your grandfather and I were forced to say so many things. We did what we thought was  right. It was for your own safety."
 Sophie and her grandmother were seated on the porch stairs in a tearful hug when the young docent agicallydashed across the lawn, his eyes shining with hope and disbelief . "No more secrets, princess. It's time you learn the truth about our family," Sophie's grandmother whispered in her ear .
 Langdon stood alone on the porch of the fieldstone house enjoying the sounds of laughter and reunion drifting through the screened door behind him . "You slipped out quietly," a voice behind him said . Langdon gave a tired smile. "I thought I'd give your family some time together."
 Langdon had offered to give Sophie and her grandmother  time to talk in private, but Marie had asked him to stay and listen . Sophie's parents and ancestors,  for protection, had changed their family names of Plantard and Saint-Clair . Their children represented the most direct surviving royal bloodline .
 Marie looked at Sophie. "Your parents' car had just been found in the river." She dabbed at the tears in her eyes . "We knew we had to protect our grandchildren, and we did what we thought was best," she said .
 Langdon could not escape the hollow gnaw of Rosslyn's unsolved mystery . Is the Grail really here at Rosslyn? And if so, where are the blade and chalice that Sauniere mentioned in his poem? Langdon sensed the story went far deeper, but he also sensed it was not for him to hear .
 Langdon had suspected that Sophie's grandmother was closely tied to the operations of the Priory . Marie looked amused as she took the paper . Langdon flashed on the three senechaux who had been killed the night before . "The wheels are already in motion, Mr. Langdon. There are always those waiting to move up and rebuild," she said .
 Langdon thought of Leigh Teabing and Westminster Abbey: "The End of Days is a legend of paranoid minds" Marie Chauvel: "There is nothing in the Priory doctrine that identifies a date at which the Grail should be unveiled"
 "If the Sangreal documents remain hidden, the story of Mary Magdalene will be lost forever," Langdon said . "We are starting to sense the dangers of our history... and of our destructive history," she said . Langdon fell silent, feeling the weight of her message upon him .
 Langdon asked, "Why is it that men simply cannot let the Grail rest?" Marie laughed, obviously enjoying herself . Langdon sensed she was toying with him, but he played along, quickly describing the symbols . "The blade represents all that is masculine," she said .
 Marie Chauvel traced a shape on her palm on the floor of Rosslyn Chapel . Langdon said, "I believe it is drawn like this, no?" Langdon stared at the scuffed stone floor. "I didn't see them," he said. "And if I show them to you, will you get some sleep?"
 The Star of David... the perfect union of male and female... Solomon's Seal... marking the Holy of the Holies . Langdon stopped short, mute with amazement as it dawns on him . "So the Holy Grail is in the vault beneath us?" Marie laughed .
 The keystone is supposed to point to the place where the Holy Grail is hidden now, Langdon asked . "Maybe you're misreading its meaning. Remember, the Grail can be deceptive. As could my late husband," she said . Langdon decided to press .
 The Holy Grail 'neath ancient Roslin waits. The blade and chalice guarding o'er Her gates. Adorned in masters' loving art, She lies. She rests at last beneath the starry skies. When she finished, she was still for several seconds, until a knowing smile crossed her lips .
 Langdon and Sophie watched her grandmother walk back toward the fieldstone house . When Sophie turned to him, her eyes were awash in deep emotion . "Not exactly the ending I expected," she said . "I have a family. That's where I'm going to start," Sophie said .
 Sophie asked Langdon to stay with her family for a few days . Langdon remained silent . Neither of them spoke for a long time . The stars were just now appearing, but to the east, a single point of light glowed brighter than any other . It was Venus, the ancient Goddess shining down with her ancient light .
 Langdon felt an unexpected sadness to realize he would be returning to Paris without her . The night was growing cooler, a crisp breeze rolling up from the lowlands . After a while, Langdon could feel his own eyes growing heavy .
 Sophie kissed Robert Langdon on the lips . She said she wanted to meet him in Florence for a week without much to do . Langdon cringed at how it had sounded . "You presume a lot, Mr. Langdon," Sophie said . "It's a date."
 He had slept the better part of the last two days. He had been trying to sort through a barrage of information, but now Langdon found himself fixed  on something he'd not considered before. Could it be? He remained motionless a long moment. Still, the thought enthralled him. Impossible.
 Langdon turned south onto Rue Richelieu, where the air grew sweet with the scent of blossoming jasmine from the stately gardens of the Palais Royal . He continued south until he saw what he was looking for — the famous royal arcade . Within seconds, he found what he knew was there — several bronze medallions embedded in the  pavement in a perfectly straight line .
 Langdon had once followed the line from Sacre-Coeur, north across the Seine, and finally to the ancient Paris Observatory . The earth's original prime meridian. The first zero longitude of the world. The Holy Grail 'neath ancient Roslin waits .
 The Sphinx was conceived and commissioned in the 1980s by the Sphinx himself, Francois Mitterrand, a man rumored to move in secret circles . The Louvre Pyramid was a place Langdon had visited only days before . With a final surge of energy, Langdon burst from the passageway into the familiar courtyard and came to a stop .
 The Carrousel du Louvre was once the site of Paris's primeval nature-worshipping festivals... joyous rites to  celebrate fertility and the Goddess . Langdon felt as if he were crossing into another world as he stepped over the bushes to the grassy area within .
 There, on the floor of the chamber below, stood the tiniest of  structures . Langdon felt himself awaken fully now to the thrill of unthinkable possibility . The day's last visitors were trickling out of the Louvre .
 At the end of the tunnel, Langdon emerged into a large chamber . Directly before him, hanging down from above, gleamed the inverted pyramid — a breathtaking V-shaped contour of glass . There, directly beneath it, stood the tiny structure. Only three feet tall .
 The quest for the Holy Grail is the quest to kneel before the bones of Mary Magdalene . Robert Langdon heard Marie Chauvel's words. One day it will dawn on you. Langdon was standing beneath the ancient Rose Line, surrounded by the work of masters .
