 All descriptions of artwork, architecture, documents, and secret rituals in this novel are accurate . The Priory of Sion — a European secret society founded in 1099 — is a real organization . The Vatican prelature known as Opus Dei is a deeply devout Catholic sect . Langdon's visibility had increased a hundredfold since his involvement in a widely publicized incident at the Vatican last year .
 Opus Dei's ascension to grace was jump-started in 1982 when Pope John Paul II unexpectedly elevated them to a "personal prelature of the Pope" The wealthy sect allegedly transferred almost one billion dollars into the Vatican's Institute for Religious Works . The Grand Gallery was a dead end whose only exit was at the other end . Sophie Neveu apparently believed the curator had left her a cryptic postscript telling her to find Robert Langdon .
 Langdon unveiled PHI in the architectural dimensions of the Greek Parthenon, the pyramids of Egypt, and the United Nations Building in New York . Sophie had indeed seen the initials P.S. once before, in a kind of monogram . Opus Dei is searching for the keystone, Sister Sandrine knew .
 The key's complex series of laser-burned pockmarks was examined by an electric eye . Sophie knew of no churches that used laser-tooled varying matrix keys . Langdon sniffed the key to his nose and sniffed it to his wife . The Priory of Sion learned of a stash of hidden documents buried beneath the ruins of Herod's temple .
 Langdon: "Mademoiselle, your family died in a car accident when you were young" Langdon wrapped the item in his jacket as they made their way through the hallways . The 185-acre estate of Chateau Villette was located twenty-five minutes northwest of Paris .
 Langdon: "Rome has been seeking the Grail for centuries" Sophie: "If they never divulged the secret, and they were killed, the location of the keystone would be lost forever!" The key to finding the Holy Grail lies inside a stone cylinder, crafted of interconnecting dials .
 Langdon says Hieros Gamos ritual is not a perversion, it's a deeply sacrosanct ceremony . Bill Gates had returned to his alma mater to lend to the museum one of his priceless acquisitions . Sophie thought I'm fleeing the country, Sophie thought, her body forced back into the leather seat .
 Langdon's guilt ripped through him as he followed Sophie to the platform, where she hurried to call the police . Sophie hung up and dashed with Langdon onto the train . Fache found a stone cylinder with lettered dials spelling SOFIA inside it . Sophie would make Remy and Silas fugitives of the London police, forcing them into hiding .
 Langdon's years in the classroom had not imbued him with any skills relevant to handling confrontations at gunpoint . Langdon hoped his focus on the cryptex signaled Teabing that collaboration might be an option, and that his silence signaled Sophie he had not abandoned her . Sophie spotted a charcoal pencil on the sarcophagus lid near Newton's foot .
 The Sphinx was conceived and commissioned in the 1980s by the Sphinx himself, Francois Mitterrand . The keystone is supposed to point to the place where the Holy Grail is hidden now, Langdon asked . Sophie asked Langdon to stay with her family for a few days .
