 All descriptions of artwork, architecture, documents, and secret rituals in this novel are accurate . The Priory of Sion — a European secret society founded in 1099 — is a real organization . The Vatican prelature known as Opus Dei is a deeply devout Catholic sect . Langdon's visibility had increased a hundredfold since his involvement in a widely publicized incident at the Vatican last year .
 The controversial, neomodern glass pyramid evoked scorn from traditionalists . Captain Fache's enormous palm wrapped around Langdon's with crushing force . Langdon wondered if Fache had any idea that this pyramid, at President Mitterrand's explicit demand, had been constructed of exactly 666 .
 The media has referred to the group as "God's Mafia" and "the Cult of Christ" Bishop Aringarosa: "Opus DeI is neither a brainwashing cult or a secret society" Langdon: "Pagans" had become almost synonymous with devil worship .
 Opus Dei's ascension to grace was jump-started in 1982 when Pope John Paul II unexpectedly elevated them to a "personal prelature of the Pope" The wealthy sect allegedly transferred almost one billion dollars into the Vatican's Institute for Religious Works .
 The Grand Gallery was a dead end whose only exit was at the other end . Langdon could not possibly leave without Fache knowing about the situation . Sophie Neveu apparently believed the curator had left her a cryptic postscript telling her to find Robert Langdon . Sophie pictured her grandfather's body, naked and spread-eagle on the floor .
 Sophie Neveu vowed never to speak to anyone about what she had seen . Sophie's parents died when she was four when their car went off a bridge into fast-moving water . Langdon was about to escape the Louvre, whether he wanted to or not . There were no trees or grass on the western end of the Denon Wing to cushion a fall .
 Langdon dedicated an entire chapter in his new manuscript to the Tarot . Langdon unveiled PHI in the architectural dimensions of the Greek Parthenon, the pyramids of Egypt, and the United Nations Building in New York . PHI appeared in the organizational structures of Mozart's sonatas, Beethoven's Fifth ymphony, as well as the works of Bartok, Debussy, and Schubert .
 The Salle des Etats was one of this museum's rare culs-de-sac — a dead end . Sophie had indeed seen the initials P.S. once before, in a kind of monogram . Langdon had never heard of the Priory's membership of some of history's most cultured individuals: men like Botticelli, Sir Isaac Newton, Victor Hugo .
 The Priory's tradition of perpetuating goddess worship is based on a belief that powerful men in the early Christian church 'conned' the world by propagating lies that tipped the scales in favor of the masculine . During three hundred years of witch hunts, the Church burned at the stake an astounding five million women . Opus Dei is  searching for the keystone, Sister Sandrine knew .
 Leonardo da Vinci's original commission for Madonna of the Rocks had come from an organization known  as the Confraternity of the Immaculate Conception . The key's complex series of laser-burned pockmarks was examined by an electric eye . Sophie knew of no churches that used laser-tooled varying matrix keys . Langdon wondered again if he might have been better off letting Fache arrest him at the Louvre .
 The Priory of Sion learned of a stash of hidden documents buried beneath the ruins of Herod's temple . Langdon: "The Knights discovered something down there in the ruins... something that made them wealthy and powerful beyond anyone's wildest imagination" Langdon sniffed the key to his nose and sniffed it to his wife .
 The Grail was believed to be buried in a hidden chamber beneath one of the many Templar churches, where it had been hidden since 1500 . The last Grail "sighting" had been in 1447 when eyewitnesses described a fire that had almost engulfed documents . Langdon: "Mademoiselle, your family died in a car accident when you were young"
 Langdon and Sophie Langdon were in the Depository Bank of Zurich's vault . Langdon wrapped the item in his jacket as they made their way through the hallways . The dimensions of the box, the apparent weight of its contents, and a Priory symbol for the Grail all seemed to imply one unfathomable conclusion: The Cup of Christ is in this wooden box .
 The 185-acre estate of Chateau Villette was located twenty-five minutes northwest of Paris . Sophie aligned disks such that her chosen letters lined up between the cryptex's two brass alignment arrows on either end of the cylinder . Langdon gave it a hard kick and sensed he might be able to break it off entirely .
 Chateau Villette is a private, gated estate owned by  a good-natured foreigner . The air inside smelled antediluvian, regal somehow, with traces of pipe tobacco, tea leaves, cooking sherry, and earthen aroma of stone architecture . The pre-Christian God Mithras was born on December 25, died, was buried in a rock tomb, and then resurrected in three days .
 Sangreal documents include tens of thousands of pages of information . In those trunks are reputed to be the Purist Documents written by followers of Jesus . Also rumored to be part of the treasure is the legendary "Q" Document — a book of Jesus' izations, possibly written in His own hand .
 Langdon: "Rome has been seeking the Grail for centuries" Sophie: "If they never divulged the secret, and they were killed, the location of the keystone would be lost forever!" All four top members of the Priory ishlyof Sion were killed in a well-planned decapiter, Sophie says .
 The key to finding the Holy Grail lies inside a stone cylinder, crafted of interconnecting dials . Police found a bullet hole  on the drawing room floor, signs of a struggle, a small amount of blood, a strange, barbed leather belt, and a partially used roll of duct tape .
 The takeoff had been unscheduled, and no flight plan had been logged . Bill Gates had returned to his alma mater to lend to the museum one of his priceless acquisitions . Sophie thought I'm fleeing the country, Sophie thought, her body forced back into the leather seat .
 Langdon felt the physical world fade away as all of his thoughts converged on Sauniere's mirror-image poem . Langdon says the Hieros Gamos ritual is not a perversion, it's a deeply sacrosanct ceremony . Intercourse was the revered union of the two halves of the human spirit .
 The keystone has been found in the bank's president, Andre Vernet, who is involved in the hunt for the missing person . Langdon felt the web of symbolism stretching onward . Collet found notations scrawled in English describing a cathedral's long hollow nave as a secret pagan tribute to a woman's womb .
 Langdon thought of the notorious Templar round-up in 1307 when Pope Clement killed and interred hundreds of Knights Templar . The Temple Church was built in London by the Priory's military arm — the Knights Templar themselves . Every year Sir Christopher Wren's descendants bring a pinch of the old man's ashes to scatter in the Temple sanctuary .
 Langdon held the black cryptex before him, waving it back and forth like a matador tempting a dumb animal . Langdon raised the cryptex high over his head, threatening to smash it on the floor . The tomb was a sealed stone casket, not a knight lying in the open air .
 Langdon's guilt ripped through him as he followed Sophie to the platform, where she hurried to call the police . Sophie hung up and dashed with Langdon onto the train . Fache found a stone cylinder with lettered dials spelling SOFIA inside it . Sophie would make Remy and Silas fugitives of the London police, forcing them into hiding .
 Langdon knew it was no coincidence that the word minstrel and minister shared an etymological root . The troubadours were  traveling servants or "ministers" of the Church of Mary Magdalene . The Teacher pondered Sauniere's beguiling riddle: You seek the orb that ought to be on his tomb .
 Langdon couldn't shake the image of Leigh Teabing being held captive, probably tied up in the back of his own limousine . Sophie spotted a charcoal pencil on the sarcophagus lid near Newton's foot . Langdon wished he had some idea about the cryptex password .
 Robert Langdon's years in the classroom had not imbued him with any skills relevant to handling confrontations at gunpoint . Langdon hoped his focus on the cryptex signaled Teabing that collaboration might be an option, and that his silence signaled Sophie he had not abandoned her . Sophie said, "How? By unveiling the secret my grandfather died trying to protect? He trusted you, Robert"
 The Knights Templar designed Rosslyn Chapel as an exact architectural blueprint of Solomon's Temple in Jerusalem . Every surface in the chapel had been carved with symbols — Christian cruciforms, Jewish stars, Masonic seals, Templar crosses, cornucopias, pyramids, astrological signs, plants, vegetables, pentacles, and roses . Langdon could not escape the hollow gnaw of Rosslyn's unsolved mystery .
 The Sphinx was conceived and commissioned in the 1980s by the Sphinx himself, Francois Mitterrand . The keystone is supposed to point to the place where the Holy Grail is hidden now, Langdon asked . Sophie asked Langdon to stay with her family for a few days .
